1
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
NATIONAL OPEN UNIVERSITY OF NIGERIA
FACULTY OF EDUCATION
UNDERGRADUATE STUDENT HANDBOOK
2018-2023
NATIONAL OPEN UNIVERSITY OF NIGERIA
HEADQUARTERS
JABI, ABUJA

-- 1 of 377 --

2
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
National Open University of Nigeria
Plot 91, Cadastral Zone
Nnamdi Azikiwe Expressway
Jabi, Abuja
Lagos Office
14/16 Ahmadu Bello Way
Victoria Island, Lagos
e-mail: centralinfo@nou.edu.ng
Website: www.nou.edu.ng
This publication is made available in Open Access under the
Attribution-ShareAlike4.0 (CC-BY-SA 4.0) license
(http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/). By using the content
of this publication, the users accept to be bound by the terms of use of
the National Open University of Nigeria Open Educational Resources
Repository: http://www.oer.nou.edu.ng
Printed by NOUN PRESS
np@noun.edu.ng
January 2018

-- 2 of 377 --

3
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
CONTENTS PAGE
Acknowledgements………………………………....... iv
Vision and Mission Statements ….………………….. vi
Vision Statement........................................................... vi
Mission Statement......................................................... vi
NOUN Anthem………………………………...……... vi
Faculty of Education
Vision Statement............................................................ viii
Mission Statement ........................................................ viii
Foreword from the Vice Chancellor………………… viii
Welcome from the Dean……………………………… ix
Part 1 Introduction...................................................... 1
1.1 About the National Open University of Nigeria 1
1.2 Studying through Open and Distance
Learning at NOUN............................................... 3
1.2.1 Importance of Open and Distance
Education in Nigeria.............................. 3
Part 2 About Faculty of Education............................... 4
2.0 Introduction……………………………………… 4
2.1 Historical Background.................................... 4
2.2 Programmes................................................. …….. 5
2.3 Administration.............................................. …… 6
Part 3 Information for New Students...................... 8
3.0 Introduction................................................. ……. 8
3.1 Orientation Programme.................................. ……. 8
3.2 Deferment of Admission................................. 8
3.3 Change of Programme and Course……………... 8
3.3.1 Registered Students who wish to change
their Programme of Study………………………. 8
3.3.2 New Students who were wrongly admitted to a
Programme………………………………………. 9

-- 3 of 377 --

4
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
3.3.3 Change of Course………………………………... 9
3.4.4 Credit Transfer………………………………….. 10
Part 4 Programme and Degree Award Requirements 10
4.0 Introduction......................................................... 10
4.1 Programme Duration............................................. 10
4.2 Prerequisite Course............................................... 10
4.2.1 Registration Procedure............................... 10
4.2.2 Opening and Closing of the Course
Registration Portal...................................... 10
4.3 Course Re-Registration......................................... 11
4.4 Add and/or Drop Courses..................................... 11
4.5 Eligibility for Graduation..................................... 11
4.6 Research Projects ................................................ 12
4.7 Grading, Moderation and Mode of Submission
of Projects............................................................ 12
4.7.1 Grading of research Projects...................... 12
4.7.2 Mode if Submission of Projects.................. 12
4.8 University Policies................................................ 13
4.8.1 Copyright Policy....................................... 13
4.8.2 Plagiarism................................................. 13
4.9 Degree Award Requirements............................... 14
4.9.1 Compulsory and Elective Courses.............. 14
4.9.2 Minimum Course Credits for Graduation
4.10 General Studies Courses (GST)................ 15
4.10.1 Degree Award Requirements ......... 15
4.11 Grade Point Average (GPA) and
Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) 16
4.11.1 Formula for Calculation of GPA and
CGPA........................................................ 16
4.12 Class of Degree.......................................... 16
4.13 Good Academic Standing........................... 16
4.14 End of Programme Clearance..................... 16

-- 4 of 377 --

5
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Part 5: Assessment and Evaluation……….…………… 321
5.0 Introduction....................................................... 321
5.1 Tutor- Marked Assignments (TMA)................... 321
5.1.1 Opening and Closing of the TMA Portal 321
5.2 End-of-Semester Examinations............................. 322
5.2.1 The eExamination..................................... 322
5.2.2 Pen-on-Paper (POP) Examinations............ 322
5.2.3 Opening and Closing of the Examination
Portal........................................................ 323
5.3 Examination Procedures........................................ 323
5.3.1 Policies..................................................... 323
Part 6: Support Services........................................ …….. 324
6.0 Introduction........................................................... 324
6.1 Study Centres........................................................ 325
6.2 Facilitation............................................................ 362
6.2.1 Introduction to iLearn Platform.................. 326
6.2.2 Tutorial Support......................................... 326
6.3 Library Services.................................................... 326
6.4 Information Communication Technology (ICT)….. 327
6.4.1 Channels of Communication ……………… 328
Part 7: Students’ Issues................................................... 329
7.0 Introduction............................................................ 329
7.1 Code of Conduct.................................................... 330
7.2 Students’ Complaints............................................. 330
7.3 Service Charter...................................................... 330
7.4 Glossary of Terms................................................. 331
Appendices………………………………………………... 332
Appendix 1: Staff List for the Faculty of Education………. 332

-- 5 of 377 --

6
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
VISION AND MISSION STATEMENTS OF THE NATIONAL
OPEN UNIVERSITY OF NIGERIA
Vision Statement
To be regarded as the foremost University providing highly accessible
and enhanced quality education anchored by social justice, equity,
equality and national cohesion through a comprehensive reach that
transcends all barriers.
Mission Statement
To provide functional, cost effective, flexible learning which adds
lifelong value to quality education for all who seek knowledge.
NOUN Anthem
National Open University of Nigeria
Determined to be the foremost university in Nigeria
Providing highly accessible
And enhanced quality education
Anchored on social justice
Equity, equality and national cohesion
Come to NOUN
For quality, cost effective and flexible learning
That adds lifelong value
For all who yearn
For quality education
And for all who seek knowledge
VISION AND MISSION STATEMENTS OF THE FACULTY
OF EDUCATION
Vision Statement
Preparing professional teachers, researchers and leaders through Open
and Distance Learning

-- 6 of 377 --

7
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Mission Statement
To provide quality and effective teacher education programmes using
the principles of Open and Distance Learning

-- 7 of 377 --

8
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
FOREWORD FROM THE VICE CHANCELLOR
The National Open University of Nigeria,
the only single mode open and distance
learning institution in Nigeria and indeed in
the West African sub-region, has come a
long way since its establishment in 2002.
The University, which began with four
schools, has now blossomed into six
faculties. The Faculty of Education, being
one of them. The institution prides itself in
the uniqueness of its vision and mission –
to be the foremost university that provides
functional cost effective flexible learning,
which adds lifelong value to quality education for all who seek
knowledge— and in implementing innovative methods that facilitate
an enriching learning experience.
As it assiduously works towards the realisation of its vision and
mission statements, NOUN continues to take great strides, especially
in using technology to make education accessible to millions of
Nigerians, irrespective of age, gender, and employment status. To
date, the institution has its automated admission, registration,
continuous assessment, examinations, and is currently providing
tutorial facilitation virtually.
Our programmes, academic staff, and graduates are among the best.
More than 90% of our programmes received full or interim
accreditation status in the last accreditation exercise. The handbook,
which has been designed to meet international standards,
complements the University’s General Catalogue as a reference tool
for information on matters specific to the faculty, its programmes,
relevant policies, rules and procedures, to guide students through the
new experience of learning in an Open and Distance Learning system.
I urge every student of the faculty to read this handbook and make it a
constant companion in order to get the best out of their learning
experience at NOUN. Welcome on board!

-- 8 of 377 --

9
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
WELCOME FROM THE DEAN
The Handbook which is the second edition by the Faculty of
Education contains the rules and regulations governing the
undergraduate programmes in the faculty. It also includes the list of
courses, course descriptions and required units for students to
graduate for each programme as approved by the Senate of the
National Open University of Nigeria (NOUN) under the departments
in the faculty. Furthermore, it contains the list of staff of the faculty
and those of the servicing faculties of the University. The various
committees through which the faculty delivers his services to the
university community are also listed.
It is hoped that this document will serve as a guide to new and
returning students of the faculty. It is also intended to provide the
general public with hands-on information about the studentship of
National Open University of Nigeria in the faculty as well as specific
information about all the undergraduate programmes on offer.
It is therefore my pleasure to urge all faculty students, staff, in the
University community and all education stakeholders to arm
themselves with this vital document of the faculty.
Professor Osuji, U. S. A.
Dean, Faculty of Education
Professor Osuji, U. S. A.

-- 9 of 377 --

10
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
PART 1: INTRODUCTION
1.1 About the National Open University of Nigeria
The National Open University of Nigeria is the pioneer Open and
Distance Learning (ODL) university in Nigeria, which has increased
access to university education in the country, as well as ensured that it
helped in solving emerging challenges confronting Nigeria and the
world at large while maintaining high quality in delivery. The
University effectively meets its responsibilities to society, as well as
meets the dreams and aspirations of Government (its Proprietor). In
doing this through its academic research programme, the University
ensures excellent quality always. The University is guided by the
Guidelines for Open and Distance Learning (ODL) in Nigerian
Universities, as well as other instruments and guidelines issued by the
National Universities Commission (NUC). The National Open
University of Nigeria strives to make significant impact through its
teaching, research and service delivery in Nigeria, Africa and
globally. The University implements the ICT-Enabled Supported
Blended Learning (IESBL) ODL Model adapted by Nigeria. This
model is predicated on a teaching and learning process where course
materials in variety of media format and learner support services and
facilities play a crucial role.
The National Open University of Nigeria is an ODL university and it
offers programmes in both Arts-based and selected Science-based
disciplines. The goal is to develop a world-class university that is
amongst the best ODL institutions worldwide.
To ensure a logical and well structured growth, the academic structure
of the University shall be developed in phases. This chapter of the
Academic Brief presents the academic structure of the National Open
University of Nigeria and other general academic guidelines.
The academic structure of the National Open University of Nigeria
presently consists mainly of faculties and departments. The
University has also established and Entrepreneurial and General
Studies Centre and a School of Postgraduate Studies. The faculties,

-- 10 of 377 --

11
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
departments and programmes of the University are established after
obtaining the approvals of Senate, Council, and NUC. Each faculty is
comprised of departments in related fields and the departments are
responsible for the academic programmes.
The National Open University of Nigeria is the leading Open and
Distance Learning (ODL) institution in the West African sub-region
through the provision of affordable, accessible and flexible learning at
the undergraduate levels. NOUN presents unprecedented
opportunities for liberalising access to university education in Nigeria
as a social enabler of learning.
The non-residential nature of the degree programmes makes it
possible for NOUN to provide a flexible and self controlled learning
system that is rapidly gaining traction in the worlds of contemporary
learning processes.
It is with great pride, therefore, that the Faculty of Education outlines
what it takes to be a student of this faculty and how the faculty is
propelling its mandate as the leading ODL institution in the West
African sub-region providing teacher education through Open and
Distance Learning.

-- 11 of 377 --

12
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
1.2 Studying through Open and Distance Learning at
NOUN
1.2.1 Importance of Open and Distance Education in Nigeria
Open and Distance Education (ODE provides education for all and
promotes lifelong learning in Nigeria. It fills the gap created by the
closure of sub-standard outreach/satellite campuses across the nation
and is cost effective in the education delivery system. Open and
Distance Learning improves on the economies of scale. That is, more
Nigerians receive quality education but at a reduced cost.
Open and Distance Learning helps on the job teacher training as more
teachers can receive education without leaving their immediate
vicinity. Some of the other long-term benefits of ODL are poverty
eradication and lifelong education. ODL can help with the provision
of national orientation and non-formal education and provide avenue
to reach the ‘‘un-reached’’ that is, girls and women who cannot leave
their homes regularly.
ODL responds effectively to the growing demand of working adults
or any others who have difficulties in getting training in conventional
education because of lack of flexibility in the timing and duration of
academic programmes. ODL provides an opportunity for the
empowerment of those most disadvantaged, such as the unemployed,
the physically challenged, women and ethnic minorities, as they can
embark on courses of their choice within their vicinity.

-- 12 of 377 --

13
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
PART 2: ABOUT FACULTY OF EDUCATION
2.0 Introduction
The Faculty of Education is saddled with the main mission of
producing professional teachers through Open and Distance Learning
for eradiation of mass illiteracy in Nigeria and beyond for successful
actualisation of Education for ALL (EFA) and Sustainable
Development Goal 4 (SDG4). The Faculty of Education operates
under the auspices of a faculty/departmental structure encompassing
segment of system reform that hinges on democratisation of academic
structures and leadership.
2.1 Historical Background
The Faculty of Education is as old as the National Open University of
Nigeria (NOUN). It is one of the four schools that commenced
operation in the 2003/2004 academic year. However, in response to
the 2016 system reform in the University, the school has transformed
from school structure to faculty/departmental structure informed by
the strong need to democratise academic structures and leadership.
Consequently, with the faculty/departmental switch-over, the faculty
now consists of three functional departments, namely the Department
of Arts & Social Sciences Education hosting three (3) programmes;
the Department of Educational Foundations hosting two (2)
programmes; and the Department of Science Education hosting seven
(7) programmes which collectively make up the twelve undergraduate
programmes of the faculty through which it fulfills its mandate of
preparing professional teachers through Open and Distance Learning.
Dr. Mercy Ogunsola-Bandele (now a Professor of Science Education)
served as the pioneer Acting Dean of the then School of Education.
She served in that capacity from 2003 to 2006. Following the exit of
Professor Mercy Ogunsola-Bandele on sabbatical leave, Dr. Ibrahim
Olatunde Salawu (now a Professor of Educational Technology) took
over and served in the capacity of overseer for a period of six months.
Later in 2006, Professor G.A. Badmus was appointed as a substantive
Dean of the School. He served from 2006 to 2012. Professor I.O.
Salawu was appointed substantive Dean in 2012 following the exit of
Professor G.A. Badmus. Professor I.O. Salawu’s Deanship expired on

-- 13 of 377 --

14
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
July, 2016 with the school system structure giving way to the
faculty/departmental system resulting from the university wide
system reform. Consequently, Professor Charity Akuadi Okonkwo
was elected as the substantive Dean of the Faculty of Education in
July 2016 along with Dr. Juliet O. Inegbedion as the Deputy Dean;
Dr. Foluke Florence Fatimayin as the pioneer Head of Department of
Arts and Social Sciences Education; Dr. Uchenna Sydney Ajunwa
Osuji as the pioneer Head of Department of Educational Foundations;
and Dr. Bamikole Ogunleye as the pioneer Head of Department of
Science Education. These academics took over in July 2016 and are
currently in the faculty and its departments. The Deputy Dean was
appointed the Director of Entrepreneurial and General Studies
Directorate of the University early 2018. In September, 2018 the
second election took place that elected the current Dean, Prof. Osuji,
U. S.A.; his deputy, Dr. Owolabi, Josiah; Dr. Foluke Florence
Fatimayin as the Head of Department of Arts and Social Sciences
Education; Dr. Oba-Adenuga, Olusegun A. as the Head of
Department of Educational Foundations; and Dr. Apata, F. F. as the
Head of Department of Science Education. Thus, it should be noted
that the faculty presently offers twelve fully NUC accredited
undergraduate programmes under its existing three departments.
The Registry staff of the faculty is responsible for the day to day non-
academic administrative function of the faculty. This team is
currently headed by a Deputy Registrar, Mrs. Dayo Akinbowale who
took over from the immediate past Faculty Officer Mrs. Kate
Anunobi who is also of the rank of Deputy Registrar.
2.2 Programmes
Twelve fully accredited programmes exist in the Faculty of Education
and are classified in the three departments thus:
A. Department of Arts and Social Science Education
i. B.A. (Ed) Business Education
ii. B.A. (Ed) English Education
iii. B.A. (Ed) French Education
B. Department of Education Foundations

-- 14 of 377 --

15
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
i. B.A (Ed) Early Childhood Education
ii. B.A (Ed) Primary Education
C. Department of Science Education
i. B.Sc.(Ed) Agricultural Science Education
ii. B.Sc. (Ed) Biology Education
iii. B.Sc. (Ed) Chemistry Education
iv. B.Sc. (Ed) Computer Science Education
v. B.Sc. (Ed) Integrated Science Education
vi. B.Sc. (Ed) Mathematics Education
vii. B.Sc. (Ed) Physics Education
2.3 Administration
The Faculty of Education like other faculties in the University is
administered by a democratised leadership system. In this system, the
Dean and Deputy Dean provide leadership for the faculty while
Heads of various departments provide departmental leadership. The
committee system is also enthroned to harmonise all the academic
and administrative functions within the departments and faculty
thereby providing synergy for related roles and functions.
Membership of each of the committees must have at least one staff
from each of the various departments amongst whom a Desk Officer
is appointed. The Desk Officer provides leadership for the committee.
Notable among the existing committees in the faculty are:
i. Examinations Committee
ii. Project Committee
iii. Quality Assurance Committee
iv. Course Allocation Committee
v. Registrable Courses Committee
vi. Curriculum Development Committee
vii. Admission Committee
viii. SIWES Committee
ix. Teaching Practice Committee
x. Management Information System Committee

-- 15 of 377 --

16
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
xi. Seminar Committee
xii. Journal and Conference Committee
xiii. Library Committee
xiv. Practicum Committee
xv. Web Committee
xvi. Facilitation Committee
xvii. Staff Welfare Committee
xviii. Physical Facilities Committee
xix. SERVICOM Committee
xx. Records Committee
xxi. Environmental Health Committee
xxii. Security Committee
Ad hoc committees are formed, used as the needs arise and dissolved
thereafter.

-- 16 of 377 --

17
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
PART 3: INFORMATION FOR NEW STUDENTS
3.0 Introduction
Once a student has been offered admission into any of the
programmes, the next exercise is to become a bona fide student of the
University. This involves taking a number of steps which are
sequentially described below.
3.1 Orientation Programme
This is designed to help new intakes become familiar with the overall
University environment considering the fact that this mode of study
is different from their previous study approach. Again, the exercise
will help them know and locate the first contact points and register
for courses of study. The rules, regulations and administrative set up
of the University will be made known to them. Students are
introduced to use of University facilities, lines of communication,
teaching staff and learner support services to make their transition as
smooth as possible.
3.2 Deferment of Admission
Students who for one reason or the other are unable to take up and
continue their registration can write the University for deferment.
Such students will write to inform the University of their readiness to
take up the offer of admission. If after one year of deferment, the
student seeks for an extension, he/she needs to write again for the
extension.
3.3 Change of Programme
3.3.1 Registered Students who wish to Change their
Programme of Study
Students can apply for a change of programme as long as they are
qualified for the programme. Such students if already registered
would have to buy a change of programme form which will be
endorsed by the Centre Director and sent to the faculty for approval
before the change can be effected by the MIS/ICT/Administrative
Officers at the study centre.

-- 17 of 377 --

18
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
3.3.2 New Students who are Wrongly Admitted into a
Programme
If a new student is wrongly admitted to a programme, such a student
should lay his/her complaint in writing through the Director to
MIS/ICT/Administrative Officer.
3.3.3 Change of Course
Students can apply for a change of programme after paying for the
form which must be endorsed by the Centre Director, approved by
the departments (after ascertaining that the student is qualified for the
new programme).

-- 18 of 377 --

19
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
PART 4: PROGRAMME AND DEGREE AWARD
REQUIREMENTS
4.0 Introduction
4.1 Programme Duration
All the undergraduate programmes in the faculty are structured to run
for a minimum of four years and a maximum of eight years for
students starting at 100 level or a minimum of three years and a
maximum of six years for students at 200 level.
4.2.1 Prerequisite Course
This refers to any course which must be passed before a student
would be allowed to register for certain specified courses at a higher
level. It is expected that students who did not pass a prerequisite
course but have obtained an acceptable level of achievement (decided
by Senate) can be allowed to register concurrently for the prerequisite
course failed with the higher level course.
4.2.2 Registration Procedure
Registration processes in National Open University of Nigeria are
treated with utmost seriousness. Without proper registration and
documentation, one cannot become a bona fide student of the
University. Registration for courses and examinations by both fresh
and returning students take place at the study centers where
applicants’ certificates are thoroughly screened. The registration
exercise shall not exceed four weeks, after which the course
registration portal closes. However, examination registration can
continue for another four weeks after which the portal will close for
the semester.
4.2.3 Opening and Closing of the Registration Portal
The registration portal is usually opened at the start of a new semester
and closes four weeks after for course registration and eight weeks
after for examination registration.

-- 19 of 377 --

20
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
4.3 Course Re-Registration
Course registration is done online on the University’s registration
portal at www.nou.edu.net. You are expected to register your courses
after you must have completed necessary payments for the semester
(For fee schedule, visit http://nou.edu.net/page/fees-schedule.
The course registration portal contains the list of all courses
offered in each programme. You are expected to register for a
minimum of 10 credit units and a maximum of 20 credit units
per semester and which must include a minimum of one (1)
elective course per semester. You are allowed to register a
maximum of 24 credit units where you have carried over
courses from the previous semesters.
4.4 Add and/or Drop Courses
In the process of registration, a student for one reason or the other
may decide not to take a course already registered for. Such a student
is allowed to drop the course and add (replace) it with any other
course for the same amount of registration fee. This must be done
within the registration period for that semester.
4.5 Eligibility for Graduation: Minimum Course Credits
for Graduation
To be awarded a degree in the faculty, a student would have to pass a
minimum of 120 and 90 credit units for the four year and three year
programmes respectively.
Degree Award Requirements
 For a four year education degree course, a minimum of 120
units should be required for graduation.
 For a direct three year course, a minimum of 90 units should
be required for graduation; and
 The student must pass all core and GST courses offered
during the programme.

-- 20 of 377 --

21
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
4.6 Research Projects
The steps involved in research projects are as follows.
 Study centres assign students to qualified supervisors.
Masters projects should be assigned to supervisors with Ph. D.
in relevant areas of specialisation.
 Students are to submit three topics to their supervisors.
 Supervisors approve one topic after necessary modifications
and endorse the approval form.
 Students forward approved topics to the study centre.
 Study Centre Directors collate approved topics and send to the
faculty in Excel format.
4.7 Grading, Moderation and Mode of Submission of
Projects
4.7.1 Grading
 Study centres should make available project assessment sheets
to supervisors to avoid discrepancies observed in assessment
and grading sheet use.
 Project supervisors should utilise the faculty assessment sheet
to assess students’ project work.
 Any assessment done on any other form different from the
faculty assessment sheet would be rejected.
4.7.2. Submission of Completed Students’ Project Reports
and Scores
Completed project reports should be sent directly from the study
centres to departments. Please note the groupings of programmes
based on the departments as presented below.

-- 21 of 377 --

22
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Table 1: Grouping of Programmes based on Departments
Department Programmes
Educational Foundations
M.Ed. Admin and Planning
M.Ed. Educational Technology
M.Ed. Guidance and Counselling
Postgraduate Diploma in Education
(PGDE)
B.A. (Ed). Early Childhood Education
B.A. (Ed). Primary Education
Science Education
B.Sc. (Ed) Agricultural Science
B.Sc. (Ed) Biology
B.Sc. (Ed) Chemistry
B.Sc. (Ed) Mathematics
B.Sc. (Ed) Physics
B.Sc. (Ed) Integrated Science
B.Sc. (Ed) Computer Science
M.Ed. Science Education
Arts and Social Sciences
Education
B.A. (Ed) English
B.A. (Ed) French
B.Sc. (Ed) Business Education
Study centres should write separate covering memos to each of the
Heads of Departments with the list of projects to be submitted and
full details in hard and soft copy on MS-EXCEL format.
4.7.3 Moderation of Projects
 External moderators of the rank of Senior Lecturer and above
are invited from other universities.
 Each moderator would select thirty projects from each of the
available project reports in a programme.
 Project moderation assessment forms are given out to the
moderators to specifically reassess the thirty projects selected.
 The scores given by the external moderators would be used to
moderate all project scores as follows to ensure uniformity:
(i) Subtract the external moderator’s score from the
supervisor’s score to obtain the difference which is

-- 22 of 377 --

23
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
either positive or negative for each student moderated
programme by programme.
(ii) Add the positive values together and likewise the
negative values to get the total of each.
(iii) Subtract the total of each in (ii) to obtain a single value
which is either positive or negative.
(iv) Divide the value from (iii) by 30 to get the difference (positive
or negative).
(v) If the difference is positive, add the value to the supervisor’s
scores for each of the students in the programme. If the
difference is negative, subtract the value from the supervisor’s
scores for each of the students in the particular programme.
(vi) The result obtained from (v) becomes the project moderated
score to be uploaded for each student programme by
programme.
 The final moderated scores would be uploaded into
MIS platform for further processing and transfer to
each student’s portal.
4.8 University Policies
4.8.1 Copyright Policy
Copyright law is a major area of law that affects higher educational
institutions. The law allows the owners of the copyright absolute
domain for the life of the author plus 50 years. Others cannot
reproduce copyrighted works. However, the doctrine of fair use
applies in the University.
4.8.2 Plagiarism
It is wrong for students to copy other people’s ideas or written work,
claiming such as original.
4.9 Degree Award Requirements
This refers to the minimum number of courses a student must take
and pass before being eligible for graduation. This is based on all the
compulsory courses specified for students on the particular degree
programme.

-- 23 of 377 --

24
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
4.9.1 Compulsory and Elective Courses
A compulsory course is a course which a student is required to
register for and pass before eligibility for graduation. An elective
course, however, may be registered and taken but not necessarily
passed.
4.9.2 Minimum Course Credits for Graduation
This is the minimum total number of credit units which a student is
expected to pass before graduation. The general minimum
requirement is 90units for Direct (200L) entrants while it is 120 units
for UME (100L) entrants. This is however higher for some
programmes and varies from programme to programme.
4.10. General Studies Courses (GST)
These are University specified general courses for all students.
However, some of the courses apply to certain specialisations while
others apply to others. General courses must be registered, taken and
passed before graduation.
Table 2: Compulsory General Courses for Programmes in the
Faculty of Education
(a) Summary of Distribution of Course Credits by Level
Level
Compulsory
1st Semester
Course
Compulsory
2nd Semester
Course
Total
100 1 2 3
200 2 3 5
300 3 4 7
400 3 3 6
Total 9 12 21

-- 24 of 377 --

25
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
(b) 100 Level First Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit(s)
Status
EDU
111
Introduction to Foundations of
Education
2 C
Total Credit Units – Compulsory 2 C
(c) 100 Level Second Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit
Status
EDU
112
Professionalism in Teaching 2 C
EDU
114
History Of Education in Nigeria 2 C
Total Credit Units – Compulsory 4 C
(d) 200 Level First Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit(s)
Status
EDU
231
Curriculum Development Theory
and Practice
2 C
EDU
233
General Teaching Methods 2 C
Total Credit Units – Compulsory 4 C
(e) 200 Level Second Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit(s)
Status
EDU
212
Sociology of Education 2 C
EDU
214
Philosophy of Education 2 C
EDU
216
Special Method II (Micro Teaching) 2 C
Total Credit Units – Compulsory 6 C

-- 25 of 377 --

26
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
(f) 300 Level First Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit(s)
Status
EDU
321
Psychology of Learning 2 C
EDU
323
Basic Research Methods in
Education
3 C
EDU
335
Teaching Practice I 3 C
Total Credit Units – Compulsory 8 C
* At the end of the semester, Direct Entry students must offer GST
203.
(g) 300 Level Second Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit(s)
Status
EDU
332
Educational Technology 2 C
EDU
302
ICT in Education 2 C
EDU
314
Comparative Education 2 C
EDU336 Post Teaching Practice Experience /
Remediation
2 C
Total Credit Units – Compulsory 8 C
(h)400 Level First Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit(s)
Status
EDU
421
Fundamentals of Guidance and
Counselling
2 C
EDU
423
Measurement and Evaluation 2 C
EDU
435
Teaching Practice II 3 C
Total Credit Units – Compulsory 7 C

-- 26 of 377 --

27
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
(i)400 Level Second Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit(s)
Status
EDU
420
Research Project 4 C
EDU
412
Principles of Educational
Management
2 C
EDU
426
Special Education 2 C
Total Credit Units – Compulsory 8 C
Note: Students are to offer a minimum of one elective course of two
credit units at the end of the session.
Each student would offer a maximum of 37 credit units.
Course Content Specification
EDU 111: Introduction to Foundations of Education (2C)
Philosophical and psychological perspective, philosophy of
education, meaning and relevance, equality of educational
opportunity, psychology of education, introduction to learning
theories, readiness to learning, motivation and its relation to learning,
transfer of learning, historical and sociological perspective, concept
and nature of education, types of education, the growth of education
in Nigeria, educational trends in Nigeria, innovations in education,
the status of teachers in Nigeria, education and society, social class
and educational opportunity, factors that influence education.
EDU 112: Professionalism in Teaching (2 C)
Concepts and issues in teaching, concepts of teaching and
professionalism, history of teaching in Nigeria, professional growth
of teachers, educating the educators, professional studies programs
for teachers, the teacher and the child, why teachers should care, the
making of ideal teacher, qualities of an ideal teacher, the role of the
teacher, the Nigerian Union of Teachers (NUT), the role of Parent
Teachers Association (PTA), the subject teacher association, the
status of teacher in Nigeria, strategies for making teaching a
profession

-- 27 of 377 --

28
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
EDU 114: History of Education in Nigeria (2 C)
Nigeria traditional education, higher education in traditional society,
Islamic education in Nigeria, advent of Western education in Nigeria,
The early missionaries and the development of education in Nigeria,
colonial government involvement in Nigeria education 1872 – 1882,
education ordinances 1887 – 1916, the impact of Phelps – Stokes
Commission on Education in Northern Nigeria, Secondary Education
from 1859 – 1929, Higher Education, the National Curriculum
Conference and the National Policy on Education.
EDU 231: Curriculum Theory and Practice (2C)
History of Curriculum Development in Nigeria: The importance of
curriculum, Curriculum Development and/or Improvement in a
developing country like Nigeria, Participants in Curriculum
Planning:- Levels of Planning, Approaches to Planning, Curriculum
Decisions:- Different Stages of Curriculum Decision, The 1969
National Curriculum Conference as a Case Study, Force affecting
Curriculum Decisions, Aims and Objectives of Nigeria Education,
Selection of Learning Experience:- Criteria for Selection, Programme
of Studies, Programme of Activities, Programme of Guidance,
Organisation of Learning Experience:- Traditional Organisation of
Curriculum, New Dimension in Organisation. Evaluation:- Evaluation
of Educational Programmes, Formative Evaluation (Action
Research), Summative Evaluation, Evaluation of the Achievement of
the Individual in the Programme:- Guidance – oriented Evaluation,
Selection – oriented Evaluation.
EDU 212: Sociology of Education (2 C)
Definition of Sociology, Education and Pedagogy from Sociological
Perspective, Education and Society, Theory of Knowledge, Principles
of the Sociology of Knowledge, Socialisation: Culture and
Personality, Education and Social Frame Work:- The Family and
Education, Education and Social Stratification – the Nigeria Elites,
Education and Social Values, Moral Education in Changing Society;
Education, Social Justice and the Teacher, Equality in Education,
Freedom in Education. The Social Functions of Education –
Education and Social Change, Education and Social Economic

-- 28 of 377 --

29
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Development, The Political function of Education, The Sociology of
Teaching:- The Teacher and his Role; The Reluctant Learner, The
Teacher in the Classroom, Social Relations in the School.
EDU 233: General Teaching Methods (2 C)
The Teacher and the Child, How children learn, Professional attitudes
and understanding of learners, The aims of the Teaching, The Stages
In Lesson Preparation:- The Syllabus, The Scheme of work, Lesson
Notes; Steps in preparation of notes, The problem of time –table.
General Teaching Methods:- Induction Method, Deduction Method,
Induction and Deduction Methods, The Lecture Method, Dramatic
Method, Questioning and Problem Methods, The Project Methods,
Activities in the Lesson, The Art of Classroom Management:-
Qualities of a good teacher, Some common bad habits to avoid,
Dealing with the problem of discipline in class. Questions and
Questioning, Students Natural Curiosity and Enquiry, Aims in
Questing, Questions in Classroom: The teacher’s questions, the
pupil’s questions, Guidelines for questioning. Testing and
Examinations, the purpose of testing, what to test, How and when to
test, Characteristics of a good test, types of tests, marks and
Assignments, Purpose of marking and assignments, Giving and
marking assignments, Awarding and assigning marks and grades,
methods of Study, Use of test book, Art of Note-Making,
Organisation of work, Revision and review of work, Physical
Environment of the classroom, Preparation for examination. Use of
Audio-Visual Aids, Importance of Audio-Visual in Teaching, Types
of Audio-visual Aids and their uses.
EDU 214: Philosophy of Education (2 C)
Explaining concepts of education, (Aims: - goals, objectives, end,
means); Philosophy and philosophers; Curriculum: The nature of
Education in Nigeria (metaphysics) – formal and informal education,
auxiliary education, Liberal and vocational education. Knowledge and
education in Nigeria – (Epistemology) Definitions of knowledge,
Types of knowledge; Knowledge by divine revelation, By institution
Prior knowledge, Posteriori knowledge, Need for knowledge in
modern Nigeria morality and education (axiology) Define concepts of
morality and education, Determinants of good education, Logic and

-- 29 of 377 --

30
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
education, Inductive and Deductive methods of teaching; Logic and
curriculum planning, Logic and School Administration; Discipline;
Freedom, Determination and Free will.
EDU 323: Basic Research Methods in Education (2 C)
Meaning of Research; Scientific method of research, Selection of the
topic, Subjects etc for research; Purposes of research studies;
Guidelines in selection of topics, Preparing a research proposal,
Statement of the problem; Determination of data required;
Hypothetical conclusions and implication, Collecting information and
data; Observation and interview methods, Basic consideration in data
collection; The correspondence method; Analysis and interpretation
of Data; Basic statistical concept and Their Computation, Designs of
Experiments:- Basic types of errors; Simple Randomised Design,
Random – Replications Design; Groups- within – Treatment design;
Treatment of extra venous variables, Scaling Problems and
Techniques:- Rating Scales, Rank-order Scales, etc, Determination of
Scale Value
EDU 314: Comparative Education (2 C)
Scope and meaning of Education, Examination of Significant
Differences and Similarities in Education Policy and Practices in
Selected Societies, Problems of Educational Development in
Developing Countries.
EDU 335: Teaching Practice I (3 C)
Students learn through practical experience how to teach particular
subjects, manage a classroom and the functions of a good teacher.

-- 30 of 377 --

31
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
EDU 321: Psychology of Learning (2 C)
Definitions of psychology and learning; Theories of learning and the
theorists levels of motivation and implication for education; Memory
and forgetting, Types of memory, Method of improving memory,
Types of forgetting, Factors influencing forgetting, Implication for
education; Cognitive theory of learning; Reinforcement and
punishment and classroom application; Behaviourism, Contributions
of behavioral psychologists and classroom application; Transfer of
learning and classroom application, S – R theory of Thorndike –
Skinner, Meaning of S – R, The Laws of readiness, Exercise and
effect; Punishment; Classroom application
EDU 332: Educational Technology (2 C)
Definition of Instructional Technology, its Philosophy, Terminology,
Roles of Instructional Technology in the Learning Process, The
experience, Theory of Learning, learning and Communication in the
classroom, Learning has changed behaviour, The teacher’s
responsibilities, Selecting and using materials and media in
Instructional, Visual aids, Non-projected aids, Projectors, Projected
aids, Audio-visual aids, Creating Instructional Materials, Duplicators,
Equipment Operation, projection, Recording.
EDU 421: Fundamentals of Guidance and Counselling(2 C)
Meaning, Purpose and Development of Guidance and Counselling.
The services of a School Guidance Programme; - The individual
appraisal service. Information needed for the analysis of the
individual, collection of information (test, inventories etc).
Organising recording and filing information; Use of recorded
information; Information service: Vocational Education and Personal
Social Information, Methods of obtaining and disseminating
information; The Counselling Service: Nature, Purpose and Theories
of Counselling; The Counsellor and the counselling process, The
Placement Service in School and out-of School placement, follow up
studies; Purposes of and procedures in follow-up studies, Problems in
Guidance and counselling: Values and attitude orientation, Guidance
as Classroom or Specialist Centered, Guidance as Direction or
Developments, Problems of Social change, Relation with other
Personnel and Services: Counsellor and School Administration,

-- 31 of 377 --

32
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Relationship with teachers, Extra – School Relationship, Working
with Parents and Making Referential, Guidance:- Organisation and
Implementation, Preparation of Occupational, Information,
Practicum; Preparing and using Cumulative records.
EDU 412: Educational Management (2 C)
Define educational administration, Educational law and the control of
Education in Nigeria, The organisation of the Ministry of Education
and the function of boards of education, the Nigerian Educational
system, the school and the community, Bureaucracy and decision
making in educational administration, human relations in Educational
administration, Educational Leadership, the role of the principal, staff
personnel administration, supervision of instruction, Admission
Procedures, Student’s records and reports, Student’s discipline and
welfare, Student organisation and participation in School
Administration, Principle of planning, School finance and accounting
system, School routine and time table, The school plant and facilities,
Examinations and the problems of academic standards, Evaluation
and school inspection.
EDU 423: Measurement and Evaluation (2 C)
Definition and purpose of Measurement and Evaluation, Importance
of Tests in Education; Validity of Tests in Educational Achievement;
Functions of classroom tests, Criteria for effective testing, Problems
of tests construction; Measurement of educational outcomes,
Behavioral cognitive and non-cognitive of education, Pupils
characteristics to be measured, Types of tests, Essay and objective
type tests advantages and disadvantages of each, when to use each of
them. Tests Administration and Scoring, Judging the Quality of a
Classroom test, Estimating, Interpreting and improving reliability of
test, Validity of Classroom Tests, Problem of Marking Tests, and
Quality Control in Marking System.
EDU 420: Research Project (4 C)
An application of the research methods and data processing course to
a field experience under the guidance of a selected facilitator.

-- 32 of 377 --

33
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
EDU 426: Special Education (2 C)
Concept of special education, its definition and origins. Examination
of the terms integration, inclusion, and individualised education
programme within the context of special education. Giftedness, its
meaning, and causes as well as case studies of the gifted. The
education of gifted children. Hearing impairment and educational
considerations for the deaf. Visual impairment, its causes and history.
Educational considerations for visually impaired children.
EDU 435: Teaching Practice II (3 C)
A minimum of six weeks supervised exposure to classroom teaching
on field experience to demonstrate the degree of proficiency in
applying some of the basic theories of instruction.
EDU 302: ICT in Education (2C)
ICT in Education Teachers’ Professional Development Toolkit,
Course Introduction, Understanding ICT in Education: Advancing
Policy through Classroom Action and the use of Technology,
Modification of Lesson Plans to Support Policy, Internet Navigation,
Modification of Lesson Plans to Support Policy, National ICT Policy
and its Impact on Education, Report on Policy Impact. Curriculum &
Assessment: Curriculum Standards, Internet Search Engines –
Advanced Searching, School Records, Classroom Records. Pedagogy:
Integrating ICT to Support Didactic Teaching Methodologies,
PowerPoint for Pedagogues, Strategies for Integrating ICT into
Learning, Graphic Tools to Enhance Teaching and Learning.
Organisation and Administration: Learning Activities for a Computer
Laboratory Environment, Management of the Use of ICT in a
Classroom Environment. Teacher Professional Development: Teacher
Productivity Strategies, Use of ICT to Support Lifelong Learning,
Safety Issues in Digital Environments.
EDU 216: Special Method 2 (Micro Teaching)
The course shall examine the theory and practical aspect of micro
teaching. Specifically, it will expose students to meaning of micro
teaching, teaching skills such as set induction skills, stimulus
variation skills, questioning skills, non-verbal communication skills,
use of instructional material skills and closure skills. Students are

-- 33 of 377 --

34
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
expected to demonstrate each of the skills under supervision of micro
teaching lecturer.
EDU 336: Post Teaching Practice Evaluation/Remediation
(2C)
The student is required to write a comprehensive report on his/her
experiences in practical implementation of teaching/learning
strategies in the classroom as applied to the subject area. The report
should include:
• Challenges encountered during the teaching practice
• The lesson notes used during the teaching practice
• Assessment questions as well as the marking guides used
• Assessment of teaching practice supervision by the supervisor,
and
• Suggestions for improvement.
The report should be submitted by the student to the Dean through the
study centre Director for:
• Evaluation
• Feedback, and
• Remediation.
The result of the overall processes should be communicated to the
student from the Dean through the study centre Director.

-- 34 of 377 --

35
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
4.10.1: Degree Award Requirements
Table 3: B.Sc.(Ed) Business Education
(a) Year I First Semester
S/
N
Course
Code Course Title
Cred
it
Unit
Statu
s
1 GST
101
Use of English and Communication
Skills 1
2 C
2 GST
105
History and Philosophy of Science 2 C
3 GST
107
The Good Study Guide 2 C
4 CIT
101
Computer in Society 2 C
5 EDU
111
Foundations of Education 2 C
6 BED
111
Keyboarding 2 C
7 BED
113
Fundamentals of Business Education 2 C
8 VTE
115
Introduction to Vocational Education 2 C
9 ECO
121
Principles of Economics 1 2 C
10 SMS
101
Business Mathematics I 2 C
11 SMS
105
Elements of Management I 2 C
GST courses 6
Core Courses (Educ & Specialisation Area) 14
Total = 20
Maximum Credit Load for Semester 24

-- 35 of 377 --

36
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
(b) Second Semester
S/
N
Course
code Course Title Credit
Unit
Stat
us
1 GST 102 Use of English and
Communication Skills 2
2 C
2 EDU 112 Professionalism in Teaching 2 C
3 EDU 114 History of Education in Nigeria 2 C
4 BED 112 Word Processing 2 C
5 BED 114 Business Methods 2 C
6 ECO 122 Principles of Economics II 2 C
7 SMS 102 Business Mathematics II 2 C
8 SMS 106 Elements of Management II 2 C
9 MKT
108
Introduction to Marketing 2 C
GST courses 2
Core Courses (Educ. & Specialisation area) 16
Total = 18
Maximum Credit Load for Semester
24
(c)Year II First Semester
s/
N
Course
code Course Title
Cred
it
Unit
Stat
us
1 GST
203
Introduction to Philosophy and Logic 2 C
2 EDU
231
Curriculum Developmental Theory and
Practice
2 C
3 EDU
233
General Teaching Methods 2 C
4 SMS
207
Business Communication 2 C
5 ACC
201
Principles of Taxation 2 C
6 ECO
231
Micro Economic Theory I 2 C
7 ENT
205
Entrepreneurial Marketing 2 C

-- 36 of 377 --

37
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
8 SMS
201
Business Statistics I 2 C
9 SMS
203
Introduction to Financial Accounting I 2 C
10 SMS
205
Introduction to Business 2 C
11 SMS
209
Introduction to Finance 2 C
GST courses 2
Core Courses (Educ & Specialisation area) 20
Total = 22
Maximum Credit Load for Semester 24
(d) Second Semester
S/
N
Course
Code Course Title Credit
Unit
Sta
tus
1 GST
202
Fundamentals of Peace Studies and
Conflict Resolutions
2 C
2 EDU
212
Sociology of Education 2 C
3 EDU
214
Philosophy of Education 2 C
4 EDU
216
Micro Teaching (Special Teaching
Methods and School Visit)
2 C
5 EDU
282
Business Education Teaching
Methods
2 C
6 BED
212
Fundamentals of Data Processing 2 C
7 BED
214
Computer Application in Business 2 C
8 ACC
210
Auditing 2 C
9 ECO
232
Micro Economic Theory II 2 C
1
0
SMS
202
Business Statistics II 2 C
1
1
SMS
204
Introduction to Financial Accounting
II
2 C

-- 37 of 377 --

38
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
S/
N
Course
Code Course Title Credit
Unit
Sta
tus
1
2
SMS
206
Introduction to Cost and Management
Accounting
2 C
GST courses 2
Core Courses (Educ & Specialisation area) 22
Total = 24
Maximum Credit Load for Semester 24
(e)Year III First Semester
S/
N
Cours
e
Code
Course Title
Cre
dit
Unit
Stat
us
1 GST
301
Entrepreneurship Studies 2 C
2 EDU
321
Psychology of Learning 2 C
3 EDU
323
Research Methods and Statistics in
Education
3 C
4 EDU
335
Teaching Practice I 3 C
5 BED
313
Office Information Technology 2 C
6 ACC
305
Cost Accounting 2 C
7 BHM
307
Business Law 2 C
8 ACC
311
Intermediate Financial Accounting I 2 C
9 ACC
313
Management Accounting 2 C
10 ENT
323
Entrepreneurial Development & Small
Business Management
2 C
11 ENT
325
Human Resources Management
Principles
2 C
GST courses 2
Core Courses (Educ & Specialisation area) 22
Total = 24

-- 38 of 377 --

39
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Maximum Credit Load for Semester 24
(f) Second Semester
S
S/
N
Course
code Course Title Credit
Unit
Stat
us
1 EDU
302
ICT in Education 2 C
2 EDU
332
Educational Technology 2 C
3 EDU
314
Comparative Education 2 C
4 EDU
336
Post Teaching Practice
Evaluation/Remediation
2 C
5 BED
312
Organisation and Administration of
Vocational Education
2 C
6 BED
314
SIWES I 3 C
7 ACC
310
Elements of Public Sector
Accounting
2 C
8 ACC
312
Intermediate Financial Accounting II 2 C
9 ACC
318
Advanced Taxation 2 C
GST courses 0
Core Courses (Educ & Specialisation area) 19
Total = 19
Maximum Credit Load for Semester 24
(g) Year IV First Semester
S/
N
Course
Code Course Title
Cred
it
Unit
Statu
s
1 EDU
421 Guidance and Counselling 2 C
2 EDU
423 Measurement and Evaluation 2 C
3 EDU Teaching Practice II 3 C

-- 39 of 377 --

40
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
435
4 ENT
407 Entrepreneurship Development 2 C
5 BED
413
SIWES II 3 C
6 ACC
415
Financial Management 2 C
7 BUS
401
Management Information System 2 C
8 ENT
431
Marketing Ethics & Social
Responsibility 2 C
9 HCM
433
Management and Organisational
Behaviour 2 C
GST courses 0
Core Courses (Educ & Specialisation area) 20
Total = 20
Maximum Credit Load for Semester 24
(h) Second Semester
S/
N
Course
Code Course Title Credit
Unit
Stat
us
1 EDU 412 Educational Management 2 C
2 EDU 420 Research Project 4 C
3 EDU 426 Special Education 2 C
4 BED 412 Seminar in Business Education 2 C
5 VTE 414 Vocational Guidance 2 C
6 BED 416 Office Organisation and
Management
2 C
7 BFN 402 Marketing of Financial
Services
2 C
GST courses
0
Core Courses (Educ & Specialisation area)
16
Total =
16
Maximum Credit Load for Semester
24

-- 40 of 377 --

41
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
For B.Sc. (Ed) Business Education
 For a four year education degree course, a minimum of 136
units should be required for graduation excluding GST credit
units and the student must pass all core courses.
 For a direct three year course, a minimum of 120 units should
be required for graduation excluding GST credit units and the
student must pass all core courses.
 At the commencement of the programme, each student should
be furnished with the information specifying the requirements
for the award of the degree; and
 The student must pass all core and GST courses offered
during the duration of study.
Course Description
GST 101: Use of English and Communication Skills I2 Credit
Units
Listening Enabling Skills, Listening and Comprehending, Note
taking, Information Retrieval including Data, Figures, Diagrams and
Charts. Listening for Main Idea, Interpretation and Critical
Evaluation. Effective Reading, Skimming and Scanning, Reading and
Comprehending at Varying Speed Levels, Reading for Vocabulary
Development in Various Academic Contexts. Reading Diverse Texts;
Narratives and Expository Texts. Reading and Comprehending
Passages with Tables, Scientific Texts, Reading for Interpretation and
Critical Evaluation.
GST 105: History and Philosophy of Science 2 Credit Units
Nature of Science, Scientific Methods and Theories, Laws of Nature,
History of Science; Origin of Western Science in Ancient Times,
Science in the Middle Ages of Europe, Rise of Modern Science,
Twentieth Century Scientific Revolution. Lost Sciences of Africa,
Science, Technology and Inventions, Nature and Scope of Philosophy
of Science, Man; His Nature and Origin, Cosmic Environment and
Natural Resources, Great Scientists of Nigerian Origin.

-- 41 of 377 --

42
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
GST 107: The Good Study Guide 2 credit Units
Getting Started: How to use the book, Why read about study skills,
Getting yourself organized, What is studying all about, Reading and
Note-taking: Introduction, Reactions to reading, Your reading
strategy, Memory, Taking notes. Other ways of studying:
Introduction, Learning in groups, Talks and lectures, Learning from
T.V. and Radio broadcasts, Other study media. Working with
numbers: Getting to know numbers, Describing the world, Describing
the tables, Describing with diagrams and graphs, What is good
writing? The importance of writing, What does an essay look like,
What is a good essay. How to write essays; Introduction, The craft of
writing, The advantages of treating essay writing as a craft, Making
your essay flow, Making a convincing case, The experience of
writing. Preparing for examination.
CIT 101: Computers in Society (2 Credit Units)
What is Computer, Elements of a Computer: Hardware and Software,
How to Work with a Computer, Operating Systems, and Files. Word
Processing: Introduction to Word Processing, Word Processing
Program Facilities, Copying text, Saving Changes, and Formatting.
Spreadsheet: Entering and Correcting Data, Using Formula, Numeric
Formats, Creating Charts, Charts from Non-adjacent Data, Embedded
Charts, Charts Links and Chart Types. PowerPoint and Presentations:
Presentation Screen, Creating New Presentations, Naming
Presentations, Saving Presentations and Formatting Slides, Using
Auto-shapes. Networking, Internet and Electronic mail.
EDU 111 Foundations of Education 2 Credit Units C
Philosophical and Psychological Perspective. Philosophy of
Education. Meaning and Relevance. Equality of Educational
Opportunity. Psychology of Education. Introduction to Learning
Theories. Readiness to Learning, Motivation and its Relation to
Learning. Transfer of Learning. Historical and Sociological
Perspective. Concept and Nature of Education. Types of Education.
The Growth of Education in Nigeria. Educational trends in Nigeria.
Innovations in Education. The Status of Teachers in Nigeria.
Education and Society. Social Class and Educational opportunity.
Factors that influence Education.

-- 42 of 377 --

43
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
BED 111 Keyboarding 2 Credit Units
Introduction, Touch Keying and Skill Building on Alphabetic
Keyboard, Touch Keying and Skill Building on Numeric Keyboard,
Speed and Accuracy Practice. Page Setup, Line Spacing, Use of
White Space.
BED 115 Introduction to Vocational Education 2 Credit
Units C
The conceptual issues and historical development of vocational
education in Nigeria. These include meaning, purpose, goals, values,
image and objectives of vocational education as well as the historical
trends in the development of vocational education in Nigeria.
BED 113 Fundamentals of Business Education (2 Credit
Units C)
Background and development of occupational education programme.
Business Education: an overview, historical development of business
education. The apprenticeship system of training the office workers.
The development of private proprietary, business school, independent
business academy. The three subjects curriculum, industrials
revolution and the expansion of business and office occupations.
ECO 121 Principles of Economics I Credit Unit 2
This course is basically an introductory course on the micro-
economics aspect of economic theory. Topics covered include the
subject matter of economics and basic economic problems; market
mechanism, including demand, supply and price determination;
theories of consumer behavior; theory of production; theory of the
firm, cost of production, pricing and output under perfect
competition, monopoly, monopolistic competition and oligopoly
among others.
SMS 101: Business Mathematics I 2 Credit Units
Mathematical concept in management; Basic principles of Algebra;
Introductory Differential Calculus; Simple and Compound interest
computations; Permutations & Combinations; Set theory; Factors and
Exponents; Logarithms; Equation and inequalities; Arithmetic Series;

-- 43 of 377 --

44
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Arithmetic Progressions; Coordinate Geometry; Matrix Algebra and
Applications
SMS 105: Elements of Management I 2 Credit Units
The objectives of the course are to explain the nature of management
principles, list the functions of management, describe what a manager
would do to be successful, explain the various approaches to
management, highlight the major contributors of management
scholars and practice to the development of management, describe the
exercise of authority in the practice of management and demonstrate
the importance of communication to the art of managing.
The course contents include nature of management principles, roles
and responsibilities of management, social responsibility of the
manager, how to be a successful manager, management by objective,
history of management, schools of thought on management Part I and
II, contributors to management theories, delegation of authority Parts
I and II, authority nature and types of power, authority methods of
influence and application in organisation as well as communication.
GST 102: Use of English and Communication Skills II 2
Credit Unit
Writing Paragraphs; Topic Sentence and Coherence, Development of
Paragraphs; Illustration, Description, Cause and Effect, Definitions.
Formal Letters; Stylistic Forms, Essential Parts, Complaints and
Requests, Letters about Jobs, Ordering Goods, Letters to Government
and Other Organisations. Writing Reports; Reporting Events and
Experiments. Writing Summaries; Techniques of Summarising.
Letters and Sounds in English, Vowels and Consonants, Interviews,
Seminar Presentation, Public Speech Making, Articles, Concord and
Sentences, Tenses, Gerunds and Participles, Active, Passive and the
Infinitive, Modal Auxiliaries.
EDU 112 Professionalism in Teaching (2 Credit Units C)
Concepts and Issues in Teaching. Concepts of Teaching and
Professionalism. History of Teaching in Nigeria. Professional Growth
of Teachers. Educating the Educators. Professional Studies Programs
for Teachers. The Teacher and the Child. Why Teachers should care.

-- 44 of 377 --

45
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
The making of Ideal Teacher. Qualities of an ideal teacher. The Role
of the Teacher. The Nigerian Union of Teachers (NUT). The Role of
Parent Teachers Association (PTA). The Subject Teacher
Association. The Status of Teacher in Nigeria. Strategies for making
Teaching a Profession
EDU 114 History of Education in Nigeria (2 Credit Units C)
Nigeria Traditional Education, Higher Education in Traditional
Society, Islamic Education in Nigeria, Advent of Western Education
in Nigeria, The Early Missionaries and the Development of Education
in Nigeria, Colonial Government involvement in Nigeria Education
1872 – 1882, Education Ordinances 1887 – 1916, The Impact of
Phelps – Stokes Commission on Education in Northern Nigeria,
Secondary Education from 1859 – 1929, Higher Education, The
National Curriculum Conference and the National Policy on
Education.
BED 112: Word Processing (2 Credit Units)
Page Setup, Line Spacing, Use of White Space, Page Numbering,
Headers and Footers. Templates, Document View, Line and Page
Break, Print, Manuscript, Simple Editing, Paragraphs, Headings,
Formatting/Other Functions, letter, tabulations, speech, symbols,
minutes of meeting, and any new form of word processing should be
incorporated at the time of teaching.
BED 113: Business Methods (2 Credit Units)
Business plan, Business Structure, Quantitative methods in Business,
Management and control of business.
ECO 122 Principles of Economics II (2 Credit Units)
This course which focuses on microeconomic theory is a continuation
of ECO 101, topics covered include the field of macroeconomics;
national income accounting; money and banking; components of
gross domestic product; aggregate demand and aggregate supply
analysis; Government and the Economy; Open Economy
Macroeconomics.

-- 45 of 377 --

46
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
SMS 102: Business Mathematics II (2 Credit Units)
Mathematical concept in management; Basic principles of Algebra;
Introductory Differential Calculus; Simple and Compound interest
computations; Permutations & Combinations; Set theory; Factors and
Exponents; Logarithms; Equation and inequalities; Arithmetic Series;
Arithmetic Progressions; Coordinate Geometry; Matrix Algebra and
Applications.
SMS 106 Elements of Management II (2 Credit Units)
The course contents include nature of management principles, roles
and responsibilities of management, social responsibility of the
manager, how to be a successful manager, management by objective,
history of management, schools of thought on management Part I and
II, contributors to management theories, delegation of authority Parts
I and II, authority nature and types of power, authority methods of
influence and application in organisation as well as communication.
MKT 108: Introduction to Marketing (2 Credit Units)
Definition of Marketing; Fundamental concepts in marketing;
marketing evolution and phrases; the role and importance of
marketing; functions of marketing; products and their categorisation;
marketing environment; features of industrial and consumer goods;
the role of middlemen and outlets types in Nigeria; problems of
distributive trade in Nigeria; the marketing mix; product
differentiation and market segment; branding, packaging and
labeling; price theory and price problems; marketing promotion –
promotional mix; marketing information – marketing research and
intelligence.
BFN104: Elements of Banking (2 Credit Units)
The business of banking, the development of money, historical
development of banking, the central bank of Nigeria, the Nigeria
banking structure, savings and investment, the Nigerian money
market, bank’s balance sheet, organisational structure of clearing
bank, bills of exchange cheques, methods of payment through the
banking system, bank, lending, interpreting the accounts of customers
and the banker’s institute (the Chartered Institute of Bankers of
Nigeria (CIBN).

-- 46 of 377 --

47
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
GST 203: Introduction to Philosophy and Logic (2 Credit
Units)
Definition and Scope of Philosophy, Philosophy as the Parent
Discipline, Branches of Philosophy, Philosophy and Other
Disciplines, Sources of Knowledge and Criteria for Knowing.
Definition and Scope of Logic, Logic’s Vocabulary, Valid, Invalid,
Deductive and Inductive Arguments, Language and its Functions.
Fallacies, Definitions, Categorical Propositions, Syllogisms,
Symbolising in Logic, Truth Table Analysis, Logical Proofs of
Validity Using Truth Tables, Rules of Inference and Argument
Forms, Laws of Thought.
EDU 231 Curriculum Theory and Practice (2 Credit Units C)
History of Curriculum Development in Nigeria: The importance of
curriculum, Curriculum Development and/or Improvement in a
developing country like Nigeria, Participants in Curriculum
Planning:- Levels of Planning, Approaches to Planning, Curriculum
Decisions:- Different Stages of Curriculum Decision, The 1969
National Curriculum Conference as a Case Study, Force affecting
Curriculum Decisions, Aims and Objectives of Nigeria Education,
Selection of Learning Experience:- Criteria for Selection, Programme
of Studies, Programme of Activities, Programme of Guidance,
Organisation of Learning Experience:- Traditional Organisation of
Curriculum, New Dimension in Organisation. Evaluation:- Evaluation
of Educational Programmes, Formative Evaluation (Action
Research), Summative Evaluation, Evaluation of the Achievement of
the Individual in the Programme:- Guidance – Oriented Evaluation,
Selection – Oriented Evaluation

-- 47 of 377 --

48
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
EDU 233 General Teaching Methods (2 Credit Units C)
The Teacher and the Child, How children learn, Professional attitudes
and understanding of learners, The aims of the Teaching, The Stages
In Lesson Preparation:- The Syllabus, The Scheme of work, Lesson
Notes; Steps in preparation of notes, The problem of time –table.
General Teaching Methods:- Induction Method, Deduction Method,
Induction and Deduction Methods, The Lecture Method, Dramatic
Method, Questioning and Problem Methods, The Project Methods,
Activities in the Lesson, The Art of Classroom Management:-
Qualities of a good teacher, Some common bad habits to avoid,
Dealing with the problem of discipline in class. Questions and
Questioning, Students Natural Curiosity and Enquiry, Aims in
Questing, Questions in Classroom: The teacher’s questions, the
pupil’s questions, Guidelines for questioning. Testing and
Examinations, the purpose of testing, what to test, How and when to
test, Characteristics of a good test, types of tests, marks and
Assignments, Purpose of marking and assignments, Giving and
marking assignments, Awarding and assigning marks and grades,
methods of Study, Use of test book, Art of Note-Making,
Organisation of work, Revision and review of work, Physical
environment of the classroom, Preparation for examination. Use of
Audio-Visual Aids, Importance of Audio-visual in teaching, Types of
Audio-visual Aids and their uses.
BED 211: Business Communication 2 Credit Units
Communication environment and foundations, writing, planning and
dictating, communication through letters, communication through
memoranda and reports, communication about employment, and oral
communication and communication management.

-- 48 of 377 --

49
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
ACC 201: Principles of Taxation 2 Credit Units
This course covers areas such as Historical and Legal Background of
Taxation in Nigeria, Tax Administration in Nigeria, Taxation of
Income Vs Taxation of Capital (the Difference between Taxation of
Income and the Taxation of Capital), Basis of Assessment of Profits
of Businesses (Basis Period) and Loss Relief. Others are Capital
Allowances, Taxation of Employees and Sole Trader, Partnership
Taxation, Companies Taxation, Taxation of Settlement, Trust and
Estate, Taxation of Banks, Taxation of Insurance Companies,
Taxation of Construction Companies, Taxation of Airline and
Shipping Companies. Lastly, issues on Double Taxation Relief are
also discussed.
ECO 231 Micro Economic Theory I (2 Credit Units)
This course builds on the foundation of ECO102. Topics covered
include: theory of consumer behavior; utility approach and
indifference curve approach. Topics in consumer demand: market
structures, output and pricing under various market structures-perfect
competition, monopoly, monopolistic competition and oligopoly; the
theory of distribution under perfect competition; input pricing and
employment under imperfect competition.
ENT 205: Consumer Behaviour (2 Credit Units)
As in the Faculty of Management Sciences.
SMS 201: Business Statistics I (2 Credit Units)
The course contents include statistics and decision making process,
data (its nature, source and methods of collection), summarising data,
graphical presentation of data, measure of central tendency
(arithmetic mean, geometric means and harmonic mean, median and
mode), fractiles, skewness and kurtosis, measures of dispersion, set
theory, permutations and combinations, some elementary probability
concepts, probability rule, events and BA theorem, probability
distribution of a discrete random variable, binomial distribution,
Poisson distribution, the hyper-geometric distribution and normal
distribution.

-- 49 of 377 --

50
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
SMS 203: Introduction to Financial Accounting I (2 Credit
Units)
The aim of this course is to introduce learners to the basic principles
of accounting concepts and conventions, demonstrate how the two
ledger accounts involved in a business transactions can be identified,
outline the importance of accounting, determine the net profit or loss
of a business at the end of the business period and show the financial
statement of business concern as at a particular period.
The course contents include definition and objectives of book
keeping, accounting, accountancy and importance of account,
principles of accounting concepts and conventions, double entry
system of accounting, the ledger, trial balance I (meaning and
methods) and II (errors), control accounts, journal (meaning,
specimen and types of a journal, uses of journal, primary and
secondary uses), rectification of errors on journal, subsidiary book –
purchase, sales, cash book, bank and cheques.
SMS 205: Introduction to Business (2 Credit Units)
Concept, planning and background of the word business; definition
of profit and its importance; types of business organisations in terms
of the ownership structures; business organisational structures;
activities of a business in terms of various organic and auxiliary
functions of a business; meaning, types and policy issues in business
environment; legal issues and solution in business environment: sales
of goods, law of contract, business law; role of government in
business; role of international organisations; industrialisation and
development; social responsibility of business system; business
ethics.
SMS 209: Introduction to Finance (2 Credit Units)
As in the Faculty of Management Sciences.
GST 202: Fundamentals of Peace Studies & Conflict
Resolutions
Basic Understanding of Conflict; Definitions, Causes and Types of
Conflict, Conflict Theories, Phases in Conflict, Conflict Analysis &
Transformation. Dynamics of Conflict; Relationship between

-- 50 of 377 --

51
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Perception and Conflict, Language Barriers in Conflict and
Resolution, Early Warning and Early Response Mechanism, Arms
Control and Demilitarisation, Peace and Education. Trends in Global
Issues: International, Continental and Regional Organisations in the
Pursuance of World Peace, Peaceful Methods of Conflict Resolution,
Coercive Means of Conflict Resolution, Gender Issues and
Humanitarian Intervention.
EDU 212: Sociology of Education (2 Credit Units C)
Definition of Sociology, Education and Pedagogy from Sociological
Perspective, Education and Society, Theory of Knowledge, Principles
of the Sociology of Knowledge, Socialisation:- Culture and
Personality, Education and Social Frame Work:- The Family and
Education, Education and Social Stratification – the Nigeria Elites,
Education and Social Values, Moral Education in Changing Society;
Education, Social Justice and the Teacher, Equality in Education,
Freedom in Education. The Social Functions of Education –
Education and Social Change, Education and Social Economic
Development, The Political function of Education, The Sociology of
Teaching:- The Teacher and his Role; The Reluctant Learner, The
Teacher in the Classroom, Social Relations in the School.
EDU 214: Philosophy of Education (2 Credit Units C)
Explaining concepts of education, (Aims: - goals, objectives, end,
means); Philosophy and philosophers; Curriculum: The nature of
education in Nigeria (metaphysics) – formal and informal education,
auxiliary education, Liberal and vocational education. Knowledge and
education in Nigeria – (Epistemology) Definitions of knowledge,
Types of knowledge; Knowledge by divine revelation, By institution
Prior knowledge, Posteriori knowledge, Need for knowledge in
modern Nigeria morality and education (axiology) Define concepts of
morality and education, Determinants of good education, Logic and
education, Logic and education; Inductive and Deductive methods of
teaching; Logic and curriculum planning, Logic and School
Administration; Discipline; Freedom, Determination and Free will.

-- 51 of 377 --

52
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
EDU 282: Business Education Methods (3 Credit Units C)
Concept of business studies, underlying theory to teaching method,
good teaching method, teacher centred method, centred method,
individualised teaching method, use of audio visual aids, teaching
keyboarding, teaching accounting, teaching management, teaching
marketing, teaching human relations, planning to teach, lesson
development.
BED 212: Fundamentals of Data Processing (2 Credit Units
C)
Problem identification, types, design, data gathering, processing,
analysing, interpreting and reporting in educational context. The use
of statistics and computer as tools in educational research should be
emphasised.
BED 214: Computer Application in Business (2 Credit Units
C)
Business oriented software programmes e.g. automated accounting,
payroll inventory, office procedure; the use of the various
programmes in solving business-related problems; Information
management, internet buying and selling techniques, communication
and any new form of the use of computer in business.
ACC 210: Auditing (2 Credit Units (C)
To enable learners understand the system and techniques of audit and
their applications.
Definition of auditing, concept and object of audit of financial
statement, nature and origin of audit, qualities of a good auditor; types
of audit – types of errors and frauds of audit stating their advantages
and disadvantages, relationship between forms of audit – internal and
statutory audits; skill of audit and audit report writing, initial audit
programme, audit notes and methods of work ,distinguish between
internal control and internal check techniques, audit of cash
transaction, audit of trading transactions, audit ledgers accounts,
verification and valuation of assets and liabilities, preparation of
accounts such as – Income and expenditure, trading profit and loss
manufacturing, Balance sheet. Explanation on depreciation, reserve

-- 52 of 377 --

53
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
and provisions; difference between cooperative audit and other
business organisations audit, features of cooperative audit, audit of
different types of cooperative societies. Implication of audit report –
meaning of audit report, concept of true and fair reports. Analysing
audit reports and comments, responsibility of auditor and his/her
independence as a verifier of financial information, legal position and
liability of auditors, importance of the auditor in a business
organisation; responsibility of the Board of Directors, management
and their relationship with the auditors.
ECO 232: Micro Economic Theory II (Credit Unit 2 C)
This course builds on the knowledge gained in ECO 201. The focus
here is on the use of quantitative methods in analysing advanced
macro-economics. Topics include: the theory of demand; the theory
of production; cost theory, price theory, managerial theories of the
firm, the behavioural theory of the firm; the notion of surplus values
and profits, general equilibrium theory and welfare economics with
particular reference to Nigeria.
SMS 202: Business Statistics II (2 Credit Units C)
As in the Faculty of Management Sciences
SMS 204: Introduction to Financial Accounting II (2 Credit
Units C)
As in the Faculty of Management Sciences
SMS 206: Introduction to Cost and Management Accounting
(2 Credit Units E)
As in the Faculty of Management Sciences
ENT 224 Business Ethics (2 Credit Units E)
As in the Faculty of Management Sciences

-- 53 of 377 --

54
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
GST 301: Entrepreneurship Studies (2 Credit Units C)
Definition of Entrepreneurship, Relationship Between
Entrepreneurship and Small Business Management, Factors of
Entrepreneurship; Dealing with External Factors of Entrepreneurship;
Factors of Production; Profit and Other Objectives of an
Entrepreneur, the Business Environment, Understanding Viability
Study; Needs and Characteristics of Consumers; Mission and
Enterprise Objectives; Export Market Shares; Target Market; Income
Determination; Break-even Point, Size of the Business, Location
Factors; Financial Requirements Forms of Ownership; Business Plan.
Risk Analysis; Legal Requirements; Staffing, Purchasing; Production;
Management.
EDU 321: Psychology of Learning (2 Credit Units C)
Definitions of psychology & learning; Theories of learning and the
theorists levels of motivation and implication for education; Memory
and forgetting, Types of memory, Method of improving memory,
Types of forgetting, Factors influencing forgetting, Implication for
education; Cognitive theory of learning; Reinforcement and
punishment and classroom application; Behaviourism, Contributions
of behavioral psychologists and classroom application; Transfer of
learning and classroom application, S – R theory of Thorndike –
skinner, Meaning of S – R, The Laws of readiness, Exercise and
effect; Punishment; Classroom application.
EDU 323: Basic Research Methods in Education (2 Credit
Units C)
Meaning of Research; Scientific method of research, Selection of the
topic, Subjects etc for research; Purposes of research studies;
Guidelines in selection of topics, Preparing a research proposal,
Statement of the problem; Determination of data required;
Hypothetical conclusions and implication, Collecting information and
data; Observation and interview methods, Basic consideration in data
collection; The correspondence method; Analysis and interpretation
of Data; Basic statistical concept and Their Computation, Designs of
Experiments:- Basic types of errors; Simple Randomised Design,
Random – Replications Design; Groups- within – Treatment design;
Treatment of extra venous variables, Scaling Problems and

-- 54 of 377 --

55
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Techniques:- Rating Scales, Rank-order Scales, etc, Determination of
Scale Value
EDU 335: Teaching Practice I (2 Credit Units C)
Students learn through practical experience how to teach particular
subjects. Manage a Classroom and the Functions of a Good Teacher.
BED 313: Office Information Technology (2 Credit Units
C)
The course includes various office services and automation,
information and communication handling procedures, office
functions, types of office machines as they apply to different
departments in the office. Manual and electronic gadgets. The future
and trends of office information technology.
ACC 305: Cost Accounting (2 Credit Units C)
Introduction;, definition and purpose of cost accounting; classification
of cost functions; elements responsibility and behaviour – material
accounting and control procedure; labour accounting, overhead cost
accounting and control procedures; cost centre; cost behaviour and
cost estimation – costing methods, standard costing techniques;
absorption costing, marginal costing, budgeting and budgetary control
and cost control.
ACC 307: Commercial Law (2 Credit Units C)
This course will enlighten students on the Nigerian Legal system;
sources of Nigerian Law; hierarchy of Nigerian courts; commercial
arbitration; Law of contracts; commercial contracts; commercial
relations between persons; unfair competition; passing off and “trade
libel”; sale of goods; hire purchase; carriage of goods; negotiable
instruments; money lending; distinction between civil and criminal
liability, partnership law; meaning of corporate personality and the
doctrine of ultra vires. This course is designed to expand the
knowledge of commercial law which the student would already have
obtained in Business Law placing particular emphasis however on the
constitution and operations of corporate entities. Topics include: types
of companies; company procedure and documentation; issues and
transfer of shares and debentures; meetings and resolutions; duties of

-- 55 of 377 --

56
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
officers; provisions relating to disclosure in corporate accounts
reconstruction, amalgamation and take over.
ACC 311 : Intermediate Financial Accounting 1 (2 Credit
Units C)
Topics to be treated include topics related to published financial
statements, cash flow statement and interpretation of financial
statements, accounting for insurance claims and foreign branches,
accounting for contract, investment, lease and hire purchase.
ACC 313: Management Accounting (2 Credit Units C)
As in the Faculty of Management Sciences
ENT 323 Entrepreneurial Development and Small Business
Management (2 Credit Units)
As in the Faculty of Management Sciences
ENT 325: Human Resources Management Principles (2
Credit Units C)
As in the Faculty of Management Sciences
ECO 323: Labour and Human Resources Economics (2
Credit Unit E)
This course helps to acquaint the students with principles of
economics as applicable in labour matters and to introduce the
students to issues in industrial relations. Topics covered include:
demand and supply of labour, theories of labour movement, theories
of collective bargaining and industrial democracy among others.
ENT 329: Strategic Management (2 Credit Unit E)
As in the Faculty of management Sciences

-- 56 of 377 --

57
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
EDU 332: Introduction to Educational Technology (2
Credit Units C)
Definition of Instructional Technology, its Philosophy, Terminology,
Roles of Instructional Technology in the Learning Process; The
experience, Theory of Learning, learning and Communication in the
classroom, Learning has changed behaviour, The teacher’s
responsibilities, Selecting and using materials and media in
Instructional, Visual aids, Non-projected aids, Projectors, Projected
aids, Audio-visual aids, Creating Instructional Materials, Duplicators,
Equipment Operation, projection, Recording.
EDU 314; Comparative Education (2 Credit Units C)
Scope and Meaning of Education, Examination of Significant
Differences and Similarities in Education Policy and Practices in
Selected Societies, Problems of Educational Development in
Developing Countries.
EDU 336: Post Teaching Practice Evaluation/Remediation (2
Credit Units C)
The student is required to write a comprehensive report on his/her
experiences in practical implementation of teaching/learning
strategies in the classroom as applied to the subject area. The report
should include:
1. Challenges encountered during the teaching practice;
2. The lesson notes used during the teaching practice;
3. Assessment questions as well as the marking guides used;
4. Assessment of teaching practice supervision by the supervisor;
and
5. Suggestions for improvement.
The report should be submitted by the student to the Dean through the
Study Centre Director for:
a. Evaluation;
b. Feedback; and
c. Remediation.

-- 57 of 377 --

58
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
The result of the overall processes should be communicated to the
student from the Dean through the Study Centre Director.
BED 312: Organisation and Administration of Vocational
Education (2 Credit Units C)
This course covers the following: the structure and methods of
organising vocational education in Nigeria levels of organisation;
national, local and institutional; agencies connected with organisation
of business education (NBTE, NCCE, NUC, NERDC, etc) business
teacher preparation and levels organisation of infrastructural and
instructional resources, safety measures and administration of
records.
BED 314: Industrial Work Experience/SIWES (2 Credit
Units C)
Students should have practical experience in the industry in the area
relevant to their course of study for a period of six month. Students
should be supervised and graded to ensure compliance. Supervision
and monitoring will be organised by the university SIWES
Directorate.
ACC 310: Elements of Public Sector Accounting (2 Credit
Units C)
Constitutional and regulatory framework of public sector accounting,
Government accounting concepts and pronouncements, Sources of
government revenue, Financial management cycle in federal, states
and local government, Accounting for public sector organisations,
authorities, parastatals, boards, corporations, agencies and tertiary
educational institutions, public finance.
ACC 312 : Intermediate Financial Accounting II (2 Credits
Units C)
Topics to be treated in this course include topics relating to special
businesses and accounting standards, accounting for petroleum
activities and financial institutions, financial reporting and regulatory
framework.

-- 58 of 377 --

59
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
ACC 318: Advanced Taxation (2 Credits Units C)
Tax practice and administration, Individual assessment, trust
settlements, withholding tax, VAT and estates, Capital Gains Tax,
Corporate taxation including taxation of income, pioneer activities
and double taxation relief, Petroleum profit tax, Stamp duty including
transfers between associated companies and
reconstruction/amalgamation relief.
ENT 322: Principles and Practice of International Trade
As in the Faculty l of Management Sciences
ENT 330: Business Forecasting
As in the Faculty l of Management Sciences
EDU 421: Fundamentals of Guidance and Counselling (2
Credit Units C)
Meaning, Purpose and Development of Guidance and Counselling, The
services of a School Guidance programme; - The individual appraisal
service. Information needed for the analysis of the individual, collection of
information (test, inventories etc). Organising recording and filing
information; Use of recorded information; Information service:- Vocational
Education and Personal Social Information, Methods of obtaining and
Disseminating information; The Counselling Service: Nature, Purpose and
Theories of Counselling; The Counsellor and the counselling process, The
Placement Service in School and out-of School placement, follow up
studies; Purposes of and procedures in follow-up studies, Problems in
Guidance and counselling: Values and attitude orientation, Guidance as
Classroom or Specialist Centered, Guidance as Direction or
Developments, Problems of Social change, Relation with other Personnel
and Services: Counsellor and School Administration, Relationship with
teachers, Extra – School Relationship, Working with Parents and Making
Referential, Guidance:- Organisation and Implementation, Preparation of
Occupational, Information, Practicum; Preparing and using Cumulative
records.

-- 59 of 377 --

60
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
EDU 423: Measurement and Evaluation (2 Credit Units C)
Definition and purpose of Measurement and Evaluation, Importance
of Tests in Education; Validity of Tests in Educational Achievement;
Functions of classroom tests, Criteria for effective testing, Problems
of tests construction; Measurement of educational outcomes,
Behavioral cognitive and non-cognitive of education, Pupils
characteristics to be measured, Types of tests, Essay and objective
type tests advantages and disadvantages of each, when to use each of
them. Tests Administration and Scoring, Judging the Quality of a
Classroom test, Estimating, Interpreting and improving reliability of
test, Validity of Classroom Tests, Problem of Marking Tests, and
Quality Control in Marking System.
EDU 435: Teaching Practice II (3 Credit Units C)
A minimum of six weeks supervised exposure to classroom teaching
on field experience to demonstrate the degree of proficiency in
applying some of the basic theories of instruction.
ENT 407: Entrepreneurship Development (2 Credit Units
C)
As in the Faculty of Management Sciences
BED 411: Seminar in Business Education (2 Credit Units
C)
ACC 415: Financial Management (2 Credit Units C)
Nature and scope of strategic management, Corporate strategy,
information and financial management, Capital investment decisions,
Financing capital structure and dividend policy decisions, Capital
market financing and risk management, Working capital
management, Corporate restructuring, mergers and acquisition,
Financial management of small and medium scale enterprise,
International financial management.

-- 60 of 377 --

61
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
BUS 401: Management Information System (2 Credit Units
C)
Introduction to, and Fundamentals of Data Processing –brief history
and conventional data processing methods; Manual methods and
mechanised methods. Classification of systems and their relative
merits. Closed loop and open loop systems: effect on time-lag; the
total system approach and objectives; total systems and subsystems.
Data processing and Management Information Systems (MIS). The
organisation of MIS including the use of mechanical and electronic
accounting machines, flow charting and the principles of systems
design and documentation. Managerial uses of the information output
as a basis for developing criteria and systems. Information needs of
management and design of MIS. Computer and Data Processing –
evolution of the Computer and the Computer system Input, output and
central processing unit. Hardware and Software, Introduction to
common Computer Programming languages used in business
(COBOL, FORTRAN, SPSS etc.) Electronic, Data Processing (EDP)
methods; batch processing, rela-time processing and the management
of EDP. Business Systems hierarchical structure of Organisations; the
sub-optimisation issue.
ENT 431: Marketing Ethics and Social Responsibility (2
Credit Units C)
As in the Faculty of Management Sciences
HCM 433: Management and Organisational Behaviour
As in the Faculty of Management Sciences
EDU 412: Principles Educational Management (2 Credit
Units C)
Define educational administration, Educational law and the control of
Education in Nigeria, The organisation of the Ministry of Education
and the function of boards of education, the Nigerian Educational
system, the school and the community, Bureaucracy and decision
making in educational administration, human relations in Educational
administration, Educational Leadership, the role of the principal, staff
personnel administration, supervision of instruction, Admission
Procedures, Student’s records and reports, Student’s discipline and

-- 61 of 377 --

62
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
welfare, Student organisation and participation in School
Administration, Principle of planning, School finance and accounting
system, School routine and time table, The school plant and facilities,
Examinations and the problems of academic standards, Evaluation
and school inspection.
EDU 420: Research Project (4 Credit Units C)
An Application of the Research Methods and Data Processing Course
to a Field Experience under the Guidance of a Selected Supervisor
who specialises in Business Education.
EDU 426: Special Education (2 Credit Units C)
Concept of special education, its definition and origins. Examination
of the terms integration, inclusion, and individualised education
programme within the context of special education. Giftedness, its
meaning, and causes as well as case studies of the gifted. The
education of gifted children. Hearing impairment and educational
considerations for the deaf. Visual impairment, its causes and history.
Educational considerations for visually impaired children.
BED 412: Office Organisation and Management (2 Credit
Units C)
Data entry for processing forms; inventory, checkbook and record
management; sorting routines; Filling, payroll processing; interest
calculations; customer billing; travel; mailing and shipping;
telecommunications, Organisation and planning of office systems,
leadership and human relations, controlling operations and processing
of information.

-- 62 of 377 --

63
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
BED 422: Vocational Guidance (2 Credit Units C)
BFN 402: Marketing of Finance Services (2 Credit Units
C)
As in the Faculty of Management Sciences
ECO 446: International Trade and Finance II (2 Credit
Units E)
The course provides a sort of intermediate treatment of the principles
of international finance. It covers topics such as: the documents of
international finance, international payments, foreign exchange
markets, balance of payment and its adjustment mechanisms, transfer
movement, capital movements, international reserves, the
international monetary system, Euro-dollar and the Euro- currency
markets.
ENT 424: Feasibility Studies and Business Proposals (2
Credit Units E)
Sources of information for feasibility studies; generating data for
feasibility studies; business description; choice of business location;
technical analysis; management plan for operations; marketing
strategy; marketing analysis; financial analysis; plan implementation;
financing plan (sources of funds etc); writing business proposals;
writing a loan proposal.
Table 4: B.A. (Ed) English Language (4209)
(a)100 Level First Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit(s)
Status
GST 101 Use of English and
Communication Skills I
2 C
GST 105 History and Philosophy of Science 2 C
GST 107 The Good Study Guide 2 C
EDU 111 Foundations of Education 2 C
CIT 101 Computers in Society 2 C
ENG 121 The Structure of Modern English I 2 C
ENG 113 Intro. to Nigerian Literature I 2 C
ENG 111 Introduction to Literature and 3 C

-- 63 of 377 --

64
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Literary Criticism
ENG 141 Spoken English 3 C
Minimum Credit Units Required
GST and other General Courses
Core Courses (Educ and
Specialisation Area)
Sub-Total =
Maximum Credit Unit
6
14
20
24
(b) Second Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit(s)
Status
GST 102 Use of English and
Communication Skills II
2 C
EDU 112 Professionalism in Teaching 2 C
EDU 114 History of Education in Nigeria 2 C
ENG 122 The Structure of Modern English II 2 C
ENG 114 Intro. to Nigerian literature II 2 C
ENG 162 Elements of Drama 2 C
ENG 172 Intro. to Poetry 3 C
Minimum Credit Units Required
GST and other General Courses
Core Courses (Educ. and
Specialisation Area)
Sub-Total =
Maximum Credit Unit
2
13
15
24
( c )200 Level First Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit
Status
GST 203 Introduction. to Philosophy and
Logic
2 C
EDU 231 Curriculum development theory
and practice
2 C
EDU 233 General Teaching Methods 2 C
ENG 221 Intro. to Syntactic models 2 C
ENG 223 Advanced English Composition I 2 C
ENG 241 Introduction to phonetics & 3 C

-- 64 of 377 --

65
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
phonology of English
ENG 281 The African Novel 3 C
Minimum Credit Units Required
GST and other General Courses
Core Courses (Educ and
Specialisation Area)
Sub-Total =
Maximum Credit Unit
2
14
16
24
(d)200 Level Second Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit
Status
GST 202 Fundamentals of Peace & Conflict
Resolution
2 C
EDU 212 Sociology of Education 2 C
EDU 214 Philosophy of Education 2 C
EDU 216 Special Methods (Micro
Teaching/School Visit)
2 C
EDU 220 English Methods 2 C
ENG 222 Advanced English Syntax II 2 C
ENG 224 Advanced English Composition II 2 C
ENG 226 English Morphology 3 C
Minimum Credit Units Required
GST and other General Courses
Core Courses (Educ and
Specialisation Area)
Sub-Total =
Maximum Credit Unit
2
15
17
24
(e)300 Level First Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit
Status
GST 301 Entrepreneurship Studies 2 C
EDU 321 Psychology of Learning 2 C
EDU 323 Basic Research methods in
Education
2 C
EDU 335 Teaching Practice I 3 C
ENG 331 Intro. To Semantics 3 C

-- 65 of 377 --

66
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
ENG 341 The Phonology of English 3 C
ENG 353 The English Language in Nigeria 3 C
ENG 381 The English Novel 3 C
Minimum Credit Units Required
GST and other General Courses
Core Courses (Educ and
Specialisation Area)
Sub-Total =
Maximum Credit Unit
2
21
23
24
(f)300 Level Second Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit
Status
EDU 302 ICT in Education 2 C
EDU 332 Intro. To Educational Technology 2 C
EDU 314 Comparative Education 2 C
EDU 336 Post Teaching Practice Evaluation
& Remediation
2 C
ENG 352 Discourse Analysis 3 C
ENG 316 English Poetry 3 C
Minimum Credit Units Required
GST and other General Courses
Core Courses (Educ and
Specialisation Area)
Sub-Total =
Maximum Credit Unit
0
14
14
24
(g)400 Level First Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit
Status
EDU 421 Guidance & Counselling 2 C
EDU 423 Measurement & Evaluation 2 C
EDU 435 Teaching Practice II 3 C
ENG 421 New Trends in Syntax 3 C
ENG 415 Literary Theory and Criticism 3 C
ENG 411 English for Specific purposes 3 C
Minimum Credit Units Required
GST and other General Courses 0

-- 66 of 377 --

67
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Core Courses (Educ and
Specialisation Area)
Sub-Total =
Maximum Credit Unit
16
16
24
(h)400 Level Second semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit
Status
EDU 412 Educational Management 2 C
EDU 420 Research Project 4 C
EDU 426 Special Education 2 C
ENG 434 Literary Stylistics 3 C
ENG 454 Multilingualism 3 C
Minimum Credit Units Required
GST and other General Courses
Core Courses (Educ and
Specialisation Area)
Sub-Total =
Maximum Credit Unit
0
14
14
24
*To be awarded a degree in B.A. Ed. English/French programme, a
student would have to pass a minimum of 120 and 90 credit units for
the four year and three year programmes respectively.
Degree Award Requirements
 For a four year education degree course, a minimum of 120
units should be required for graduation.
 For a direct three year course, a minimum of 90 units should
be required for graduation.
 The student must pass all core and GST courses offered
during the duration of study.
Course Content Specification
GST 101: Use of English and Communication Skills I (2 C)
Listening enabling skills, listening and comprehending
comprehension, note taking and information retrieval. Including data,

-- 67 of 377 --

68
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
figures, diagrams and charts. Listening for main idea, interpretation
and critical evaluation. Effective reading. Skimming and scanning.
Reading and comprehension at various speed levels. Vocabulary
development in various academic contexts. Reading diverse texts in
narratives and expository. Reading and comprehension passages with
tables, scientific texts. Reading for interpretation and critical
evaluation.
GST 102: Use of English and Communication Skills II (2C)
Writing paragraphs: Topic sentence and coherence. Development of
paragraphs: illustration, Description, cause and effect including
definitions. Formal letters; essential parts and stylistic forms,
complaints and requests; jobs, ordering goods, letters to government
and other organisations. Writing reports; reporting event,
experiments. Writing summaries: techniques of summarising letters
and sounds in English, vowels and consonants. Interviews, seminar
presentation, public speech making, articles, concord and sentences
including tenses. Gerund, participles, active, passive and the
infinitive. Modal auxiliaries.
GST 105: History and Philosophy of Science (2 C)
Nature of science, scientific methods and theories, law of nature,
history of science, lost sciences of African, science, technology and
inventions, nature and scope of philosophy in science, man, nature
and his origin, man, environment and resources, Great Nigerian
Scientists.
GST 107: The Good Study Guide (2 C)
Getting Started: How to use the book, why read about study skills,
getting yourself organised, what is studying all about, reading and
note-taking: introduction, reactions to reading, your reading strategy,
memory, taking notes, conclusion. Other ways of studying:
Introduction, learning in groups, talks and lectures, learning from T.V
and Radio broadcasts, other study media. Working with numbers:
Getting to know numbers, describing the world, describing the tables,
describing with diagrams and graphs, what is good writing? The
importance of writing, what does an essay look like, what is a good
essay, conclusion. How to write essays: Introduction, the craft of

-- 68 of 377 --

69
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
writing, the advantages of treating essay writing as a craft, making
your essay flow, making a convincing case, the experience of writing.
Preparing for examination.
EDU 111: Foundations of Education (2C)
Philosophical and psychological perspective, philosophy of
education, meaning and relevance, equality of educational
opportunity, psychology of education, introduction to learning
theories, readiness to learning, motivation and its relation to learning,
transfer of learning, historical and sociological perspective, concept
and nature of education, types of education, the growth of education
in Nigeria, educational trends in Nigeria, innovations in education,
the status of teachers in Nigeria, education and society, social class
and educational opportunity, factors that influence education.
EDU 112: Professionalism in Teaching (2 C)
Concepts and issues in teaching, concepts of teaching and
professionalism, history of teaching in Nigeria, professional growth
of teachers, educating the educators, professional studies programs
for teachers, the teacher and the child, why teachers should care, the
making of ideal teacher, qualities of an ideal teacher, the role of the
teacher, the Nigerian Union of Teachers (NUT), the role of Parent
Teachers Association (PTA), the subject teachers association, the
status of teachers in Nigeria, strategies for making teaching a
profession
EDU 114: History of Education in Nigeria (2 C)
Nigeria traditional education, higher education in traditional society,
Islamic education in Nigeria, in Nigeria, the early missionaries and
the development of education in Nigeria, colonial government
involvement in Nigeria Education 1872 – 1882, Education
Ordinances 1887 – 1916, the impact of Phelps – Stokes Commission
on Education in Northern Nigeria, Secondary Education from 1859 –
1929, Higher Education, The National Curriculum Conference and
the National Policy on

-- 69 of 377 --

70
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
CIT 101: Computers in Society (2 E)
Overview of the discipline of Computer Science; General structure of
a computer system; Historical development of computer systems;
Generations of computer system; Computer operations; Internal
structure of a computer hardware; Microcomputer technology;
Computer numbering system; computer arithmetic; computer data
representation schemes; Problem solving with computers Elements of
programming languages. Computers in the Society internet and its
facilities. Basic file processing concepts. Introduction to computer
programming using VISUAL BASIC programming language;
Algorithms, Data Structures and Logic; Laboratory exercises in
VISUAL BASIC programming and the internet.
CIT 102: Software Application Skills (E)
Brief description of computer system: CPU, I/O devices; Operating
systems; Computer File Management; Computer Software: overview,
types, etc.; Application software: common application software;
Using Microsoft Word; Using Microsoft Excel; Features of Database
Applications and Microsoft Access; Statistical Analysis Applications;
Using SPSS software; Introduction to Desktop Publishing
applications; Computer applications in Nursing; Computer
applications in Agriculture; Managing the computer system with the
Control Panel.
ENG 121: The Structure of Modern English I (2 C)
General introduction to the structure of English: phonological,
syntactic and morphological levels; basic sentence phrase structures,
clause types and inter – sentential relations, etc
ENG 122: The Structure of Modern English II (2 C)
Construction of different types of sentences; correct use of tenses,
agreement between subject and verb, in the context of compound and
complex sentences. Organisation and development of types.
ENG 113: Introduction to Nigerian Literature I (2 C)
Introduction to the Traditional form: Introduction to the traditional
forms – Myth, Legend, Folktales, Folk drama, Folk poetry, Folk song.
The traditional form as background to Nigerian literature: From the

-- 70 of 377 --

71
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
pre-historical to myth to legend to folk Epic to Saga, Influence of
Nigerian belief systems on evolving literature – universal God,
intermediary gods, personal gods, Folk tales, Fables, Plants, Animals
and types as characters, Thoughts and philosophies. Colonialism,
Literacy and the Evolution of Nigerian literature: Colonial contempt
and the writings of Joyce Cary and Joseph Conrad, The incipient
traditional form – Form Oracy to Literacy, Literature, drama and
Theatre in Nigeria, Typical Nigerian Plays, Iwe Iroyin, Onitsha
Market Literature and the Growth of the Nigerian Novel.
ENG 114: Introduction to Nigerian Literature II (2C)
Emerging trends in Nigerian literature: Socio-political underpinnings
in Nigerian literature, The female writer and feminism in Nigerian
Literature, Feminism and Womanism in Nigerian literature.
Generation shifts in Nigerian literature (Drama and Fiction): From
first to second generation playwrights, Second generation
cotemporary novelists and their thematic concerns, Contemporary
drama, Generation shifts in Nigerian literature (Poetry): Traditional
poetry, pioneer poets – Dennis Osadebey, etc Second generation
Nigerian poets, contemporary Nigerian poets, Theories. Qualities and
contributions of Nigerian literature to World literature: Critical
Theories and Theorist in Nigerian literature, Qualities and
contributions of Nigerian literature to World literature, Recognitions
and awards, which the Nigerian literature has earned, Recognitions
and awards – Text, Contest and Context.
ENG 111: Introduction to Literature and Literary Criticism (3
C)
General introduction to literature; nature, forms, elements, functions
and techniques of literature; study of the basic principles and methods
of literary criticism. Texts representing the three major genres-
poetry, drama, and prose fiction will be used for illustration and
practice.
ENG 141: Spoken English (3 C)
Fundamental concepts and definitions: Speech in human
communication, The English sound systems, Introduction to phonetic
transcription, The human organs of speech; the English consonant and

-- 71 of 377 --

72
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
vowel: Parameters for classification, detailed description; The
syllable and stress, Syllable, Word stress, emphatic and sentence
stress, Problems in phonemic analysis; Intonation: Definitions and
Functions, Patterns. Audio presentation of illustrations will be
included.
ENG 162: Elements of Drama (2 C)
Nature of drama; its various elements, forms and artistic features.
Selected African and non – African plays are studied in detail to
illustrate these, such as Soyinka’s Trials of Brother Jero, Song of a
Goat, and Sophocles’ Oedipus Rex.
ENG 172: Introduction to Poetry (3C)
This course deals with the nature of poetry (definitions, elements,
forms and functions) against the background of the nature of literature
in general). It will also present critical appreciation of poetry (literary
devices: imagery, rhetorical figures, sound devices, rhythmic devices,
structural devices): and grammatical reading of poetry. There will
also be an interpretation, discussion of the artistic features of selected
African and non-African poems that will be used for illustration.
ENG 181: Intro to Fiction (2C)
As in School of Arts and Social Sciences
LIN 111: Introduction to Linguistics I (2 C)
Introduction to the field of linguistics; its scope and its application;
examination of language from the linguistic point of view, its nature
and relation to animal language, culture and society.
LIN 112: Introduction to Linguistics II (2 C)
Linguistic concepts such as the phoneme, distinctive features,
morpheme etc; linguistic methodology, formal descriptions of
language, and its various sub-specialisations such as historical,
applied, and psycholinguistics
GST 203: Introduction to Philosophy and Logic (2 C)
Fundamentals of logic and critical thinking; types of discourse; nature
of arguments; validity and soundness; techniques for evaluating

-- 72 of 377 --

73
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
arguments; distinction between inductive and deductive inferences;
etc. Illustrations from familiar texts, including literature materials,
novels, law reports and newspaper publications
GST202: Fundamentals of Peace and Conflict Resolution (2C)
Basic Understanding of Conflict; Definitions, Causes and Types of
Conflict, Conflict Theories, Phases in Conflict, Conflict Analysis &
Transformation. Dynamics of Conflict; Relationship between Perception
and Conflict, Language Barriers in Conflict and Resolution, Early Warning
and Early Response Mechanism, Arms Control and Demilitarisation, Peace
and Education. Trends in Global Issues: International, Continental and
Regional Organisations in the Pursuance of World Peace, Peaceful
Methods of Conflict Resolution, Coercive Means of Conflict Resolution,
Gender Issues and Humanitarian Intervention.
EDU 231: Curriculum Theory and Practice (3C)
History of Curriculum Development in Nigeria: The importance of
curriculum, Curriculum Development and/or Improvement in a
developing country like Nigeria, Participants in Curriculum
Planning:- Levels of Planning, Approaches to Planning, Curriculum
Decisions:- Different Stages of Curriculum Decision, The 1969
National Curriculum Conference as a Case Study, Force affecting
Curriculum Decisions, Aims and Objectives of Nigeria Education,
Selection of Learning Experience:- Criteria for Selection, Programme
of Studies, Programme of Activities, Programme of Guidance,
Organisation of Learning Experience:- Traditional Organisation of
Curriculum, New Dimension in Organisation. Evaluation:- Evaluation
of Educational Programmes, Formative Evaluation (Action
Research), Summative Evaluation, Evaluation of the Achievement of
the Individual in the Programme:- Guidance – oriented Evaluation,
Selection – oriented Evaluation
EDU 212: Sociology of Education (2 C)
Definition of Sociology, Education and Pedagogy from Sociological
Perspective, Education and Society, Theory of Knowledge, Principles
of the Sociology of Knowledge, Socialisation:- Culture and
Personality, Education and Social Frame Work:- The Family and
Education, Education and Social Stratification – the Nigeria Elites,

-- 73 of 377 --

74
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Education and Social Values, Moral Education in Changing Society;
Education, Social Justice and the Teacher, Equality in Education,
Freedom in Education. The Social Functions of Education –
Education and Social Change, Education and Social Economic
Development, The Political function of Education, The Sociology of
Teaching:- The Teacher and his Role; The Reluctant Learner, The
Teacher in the Classroom, Social Relations in the School.
EDU 233: General Teaching Methods (2 C)
The Teacher and the Child, How children learn, Professional attitudes
and understanding of learners, The aims of the Teaching, The Stages
In Lesson Preparation:- The Syllabus, The Scheme of work, Lesson
Notes; Steps in preparation of notes, The problem of time –table.
General Teaching Methods:- Induction Method, Deduction Method,
Induction and Deduction Methods, The Lecture Method, Dramatic
Method, Questioning and Problem Methods, The Project Methods,
Activities in the Lesson, The Art of Classroom Management:-
Qualities of a good teacher, Some common bad habits to avoid,
Dealing with the problem of discipline in class. Questions and
Questioning, Students Natural Curiosity and Enquiry, Aims in
Questing, Questions in Classroom: The teacher’s questions, the
pupil’s questions, Guidelines for questioning. Testing and
Examinations, the purpose of testing, what to test, How and when to
test, Characteristics of a good test, types of tests, marks and
Assignments, Purpose of marking and assignments, Giving and
marking assignments, Awarding and assigning marks and grades,
methods of Study, Use of test book, Art of Note-Making,
Organisation of work, Revision and review of work, Physical
environment of the classroom, Preparation for examination. Use of
Audio-Visual Aids, Importance of Audio-visual in teaching, Types of
Audio-visual Aids and their uses.
EDU 214: Philosophy of Education (2 C)
Explaining concepts of education, (Aims: - goals, objectives, end,
means); Philosophy and philosophers; Curriculum: The nature of
education in Nigeria (metaphysics) – formal and informal education,
auxiliary education, Liberal and vocational education. Knowledge and
education in Nigeria – (Epistemology) Definitions of knowledge,

-- 74 of 377 --

75
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Types of knowledge; Knowledge by divine revelation, By institution
Prior knowledge, Posteriori knowledge, Need for knowledge in
modern Nigeria morality and education (axiology) Define concepts of
morality and education, Determinants of good education, Logic and
education, Inductive and Deductive methods of teaching; Logic and
curriculum planning, Logic and School Administration; Discipline;
Freedom, Determination and Free will.
ENG 215: Survey of English Literature I (Medieval &
Renaissance) ( 2C)
The major literary themes and conventions of Medieval and
Renaissance English literature (excluding Elisabethan Drama and
Metaphysical poetry):survey of the shifting perceptions of the
universe from the middle ages through the renaissance with emphasis
on the significance of Humanism and Science during the period;
major conventions such as Miracle and Morality plays, Medieval and
Elisabethan lyrics and essays; study of selected authors including
Geoffrey Chaucer, Edmund Spencer and John Milton, etc.
ENG 216: Survey of English Literature II (Restoration to
Present) (2 E)
The course covers the major literary genres, styles and conventions of
the restoration to the present. It is a survey of the shifting perceptions
of the universe from the Puritans, through the Restoration, the
Victorian periods to the present in the major literary genres of each
age. There will be a study of the major literary themes, styles and
conventions of the periods in selected literary works and essays.
EDU 216: Special Methods (Micro Teaching/School Visit) (2 C)
EDU 220: English Methods (2 C)
An overview of English as a second language in Nigeria, language
teaching methods, language subsystems and communicative skills,
teaching sounds, teaching vocabulary and grammar, teaching
listening, speaking, reading and writing skills, language tests, their
types and functions, qualities of good language tests, discreet point
tests and integrative tests, uses of language test results and lesson
planning in language teaching.

-- 75 of 377 --

76
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
ENG 221: Introduction to Syntactic Models (2 C)
Principles and practice of basic syntactic models such as the
traditional, Structuralist, transformational-generative and systemic–
functional models. English will be mainly used for illustration
purposes.
ENG 222: Advanced English Syntax (2 C)
The systemic-functional model; an in–depth study of the syntactic
structures of English based on the systemic-functional model.
ENG 223: Advanced English Composition 1 (2 C)
Basics of composition writing; various composition/essay types-
persuasive, argumentative, expository, narrative, etc.
ENG 224: Advanced English Composition II (2 C)
Specialised composition writing, e.g., reports, long essays, minutes of
meetings, various types of letters, invitations, public announcements,
speech writing, etc. Correct language use; other technical matters
connected with these kinds of writing.
ENG 226: English Morphology (3C)
Detailed study of word formation processes, internal structure of
English word and morpheme structure: inflectional morphology,
identification of lexical categories and grammatical categories: Nature
and types of morpheme – affixation (derivational and processes in
English: derivation, compounding, invention, clipping, acronym,
blending, back formation, reduplication, etc.
ENG 281: The African Novel (3 C)
The African novel is a course that presents the novels as a major
genre of prose fiction. It presents a detailed study of selected African
novels from its beginning to the present day. It highlights the features
that characterise this literary form from other genres of literature. It
reflects the socio-political currents that have given the African novel
its typical character and selected text from the major regions of Africa
will be studied.

-- 76 of 377 --

77
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
ENG 251: Language and Society (2 E)
Language as a Social phenomenon and its functions; social factors of
language use; Language varieties: Dialect, accent and sociolect;
register; style; standard, non- standard, native and non-native;
deviant/restricted varieties (slang, jargon, graffiti); new varieties
(email, text messaging); languages in contact (pidgin and Creole);
Language typologies; anthropology; language learning and language
acquisition; bilingualism/multilingualism; language policy; language
planning, maintenance, shift and death; discourse analysis; code
switching, interference and borrowing; linguistic imperialism;
sociolinguistic situation of Nigeria; sociolinguistics and other
disciplines.
GST 301: Entrepreneurship Studies (2C)
Definition of Entrepreneurship, Relationship Between
Entrepreneurship and Small Business Management, Factors of
Entrepreneurship; Dealing with External Factors of Entrepreneurship;
Factors of Production; Profit and Other Objectives of an
Entrepreneur, the Business Environment, Understanding Viability
Study; Needs and Characteristics of Consumers; Mission and
Enterprise Objectives; Export Market Shares; Target Market; Income
Determination; Break-even Point, Size of the Business, Location
Factors; Financial Requirements Forms of Ownership; Business Plan.
Risk Analysis; Legal Requirements; Staffing, Purchasing; Production;
Management.
EDU 302: ICT in Education (2C)
An application of the principles of information and computer
technology to education
EDU 321: Psychology of Learning (2 C)
Definitions of psychology & learning; Theories of learning and the
theorists levels of motivation and implication for education; Memory
and forgetting, Types of memory, Method of improving memory,
Types of forgetting, Factors influencing forgetting, Implication for
education; Cognitive theory of learning; Reinforcement and
punishment and classroom application; Behaviourism, Contributions
of behavioral psychologists and classroom application; Transfer of

-- 77 of 377 --

78
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
learning and classroom application, S – R theory of Thorndike –
skinner, Meaning of S – R, The Laws of readiness, Exercise and
effect; Punishment; Classroom application
EDU 332: Introduction to Educational Technology (2 C)
Definition of Instructional Technology, its Philosophy, Terminology,
Roles of Instructional Technology in the Learning Process; The
experience, Theory of Learning, learning and Communication in the
classroom, Learning has changed behaviour, The teacher’s
responsibilities, Selecting and using materials and media in
Instruction, Visual aids, Non-projected aids, Projectors, Projected
aids, Audio-visual aids, Creating Instructional Materials, Duplicators,
Equipment Operation, projection, Recording.
EDU 323: Research Methods and Statistics in Education (2 C)
Meaning of Research; Scientific method of research, Selection of the
topic, Subjects etc for research; Purposes of research studies;
Guidelines in selection of topics, Preparing a research proposal,
Statement of the problem; Determination of data required;
Hypothetical conclusions and implication, Collecting information and
data; Observation and interview methods, Basic consideration in data
collection; The correspondence method; Analysis and interpretation
of Data; Basic statistical concept and Their Computation, Designs of
Experiments:- Basic types of errors; Simple Randomised Design,
Random – Replications Design; Groups- within – Treatment design;
Treatment of extra venous variables, Scaling Problems and
Techniques:- Rating Scales, Rank-order Scales, etc, Determination of
Scale Value
EDU 314: Comparative Education (2 C)
Scope and meaning of education, examination of significant
differences and similarities in education policy and practices in
selected societies, problems of educational development in
developing countries.
EDU 335: Teaching Practice I (3 C)
Students learn through practical experience how to teach particular
subjects, manage a classroom and the functions of a good teacher

-- 78 of 377 --

79
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
EDU 336: Post Teaching Practice Evaluation/Remediation
(2C)
The student is required to write a comprehensive report on his/her
experiences in practical implementation of teaching/learning
strategies in the classroom as applied to the subject area. The report
should include:
• Challenges encountered during the teaching practice
• The lesson notes used during the teaching practice
• Assessment questions as well as the marking guides used
• Assessment of teaching practice supervision by the supervisor,
and
• Suggestions for improvement.
The report should be submitted by the student to the Dean through the
Study Centre Director for:
• Evaluation
• Feedback, and
• Remediation.
The result of the overall processes should be communicated to the
student from the Dean through the Study Centre Director.
ENG 321: Contemporary English (3 E)
English in use in English- speaking communities; attitude to usage;
the notion of ‘‘correctness’’ versus ‘grammaticalness’; variations in
use; and the problem of defining ‘‘standard English’’ worldwide.
ENG 341: The Phonology of English (3 C)
Segmental and non – segmental phonemes of the English Language
and their organisation in concrete discourse; practical exercises to
improve the students’ perception and production of these sounds;
various approaches to the description of English phonology
(phonemic, prosodic, generative).

-- 79 of 377 --

80
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
ENG 331: Introduction to Semantics (3 C)
Sense properties and sense relations; problem of word versus sentence
meaning; theories of meaning; etc., situating the topics within the
general framework of linguistics.
ENG 352: Discourse Analysis (3 C)
Introduction to the principles and practice of discourse analysis;
practical analysis, study, and description of relevant textual materials.
ENG 353: The English Language in Nigeria 3C
The implantation and growth of English in Nigeria: advent,
promotion, functions of English in Nigeria, English and
sociolinguistic consequences in Nigeria; The Linguistic Features of
English in Nigeria; debate on “Nigerian English”, phonological,
grammatical, lexico-semantic, discourse features of English in
Nigeria; Variety differentiation: Criteria, spoken varieties, written
varieties, standard Nigerian English; English and Pidgin in Nigeria:
Pidgins, Creoles and Broken English, evolution, functions of Nigerian
Pidgin, structural differences between Nigerian Pidgin and English,
English and Language Planning in Nigeria: language planning,
policies in governance, Education, English and the National
Language Question.
ENG 314: Public Speaking (2 C)
Foundations and theories of persuasion; public speaking; the
audience; selecting a topic and purpose; supporting your ideas;
organising the materials; preparing the delivery; and making
persuasive speeches.
ENG 372: English Poetry ( 3C)
In-depth examination of the English poetry from the Romantic period
to the present against its political, philosophical, and literary/aesthetic
backgrounds and the relationships that informed the poetry of the
various periods under study; the ideas that shaped the matter and
manner of the works of the representative poets selected for study.

-- 80 of 377 --

81
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
ENG 381: The English Novel (3C)
Study of the themes and conventions of the English novel since
Dafoe. Major English writers and influences on the English novel will
be studies. There will also be a study of representative novels mainly
from the 18th century to the modern times.
EDU 421: Guidance and Counselling (2 C)
Meaning, Purpose and Development of Guidance and Counseling,
The services of a School Guidance programme; - The individual
appraisal service. Information needed for the analysis of the
individual, collection of information (test, inventories etc).
Organising recording and filing information; Use of recorded
information; Information service:- Vocational Education and Personal
Social Information, Methods of obtaining and Disseminating
information; The Counselling Service:- Nature, Purpose and Theories
of Counseling; The Counsellor and the counselling process, The
Placement Service in School and out-of School placement, follow up
studies; Purposes of and procedures in follow-up studies, Problems in
Guidance and counselling: Values and attitude orientation, Guidance
as Classroom or Specialist Centered, Guidance as Direction or
Developments, Problems of Social change, Relation with other
Personnel and Services: Counsellor and School Administration,
Relationship with teachers, Extra – School Relationship, Working
with Parents and Making Referential, Guidance:- Organisation and
Implementation, Preparation of Occupational, Information,
Practicum; Preparing and using Cumulative records.
EDU 412: Educational Management (2 C)
Define educational administration, Educational law and the control of
Education in Nigeria, The organisation of the Ministry of Education
and the function of boards of education, the Nigerian Educational
system, the school and the community, Bureaucracy and decision
making in educational administration, human relations in Educational
administration, Educational Leadership, the role of the principal, staff
personnel administration, supervision of instruction, Admission
Procedures, Student’s records and reports, Student’s discipline and
welfare, Student organisation and participation in School
Administration, Principle of planning, School finance and accounting

-- 81 of 377 --

82
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
system, School routine and time table, The school plant and facilities,
Examinations and the problems of academic standards, Evaluation
and school inspection.
EDU 423: Measurement and Evaluation (2 C)
Definition and purpose of Measurement and Evaluation, Importance
of Tests in Education; Validity of Tests in Educational Achievement;
Functions of classroom tests, Criteria for effective testing, Problems
of tests construction; Measurement of educational outcomes,
Behavioural cognitive and non-cognitive of education, Pupils
characteristics to be measured, Types of tests, Essay and objective
type tests advantages and disadvantages of each, when to use each of
them. Tests Administration and Scoring, Judging the Quality of a
Classroom test, Estimating, Interpreting and improving reliability of
test, Validity of Classroom Tests, Problem of Marking Tests, and
Quality Control in Marking System.
EDU 420: Research Project (4 C)
An application of the research methods and data processing course to
a field experience under the guidance of a selected facilitator.
EDU 426: Special Education (2 C)
Concept of special education, its definition and origins. Examination
of the terms integration, inclusion, and individualised education
programme within the context of special education. Giftedness, its
meaning, and causes as well as case studies of the gifted. The
education of gifted children. Hearing impairment and educational
considerations for the deaf. Visual impairment, its causes and history.
Educational considerations for visually impaired children.
EDU 435: Teaching Practice II (3 C)
A minimum of six weeks supervised exposure to classroom teaching
on field experience to demonstrate the degree of proficiency in
applying some of the basic theories of instruction.

-- 82 of 377 --

83
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
ENG 421: New Trends in Syntax (3C)
Various approaches to syntactic theory. Modern grammars critically
examined: Bloomfieldian taxonomic, Pike’s tagmenic grammar,
Chomsky’s systemic/functional, transformational generative
grammars, stratificational, sector analysis, and case grammars.
Usefulness of each theory and application to English. Focus on
theoretical issues in transformational generative syntax: ambiguity,
paraphrase, recursiveness, etc. \transformational processes,
relativisation, noun phrase complementation, nominalisation, etc. Pre-
requisites are ENG 241 and ENG222.
ENG 415: Literary Theory and Criticism (3 C)
Theory of literature in general; theories of poetry, drama and prose
fiction; the nature and approaches of literary criticism, the history of
English criticism with emphasis on major genres, themes and general
critical principles; relate selected readings to problems in the criticism
of African literature.
ENG 434: Literary Stylistics (3C)
Literary stylistics as applied literary analysis that accommodates non-
literary analysis; how literary semantics are unearthed through
linguistics inquiry into texts; focus on the syntactic, phonological,
discoursal and lexical operations in the thematic and linguistic
interpretation of texts; interpretation of the nuances of meaning in
texts through the application of linguistic instruments; current
linguistic theories as base of analyses of texts; through analyses
through models for practical application of the acquired knowledge
and skills.
ENG 454: Multilingualism (3 C)
The multilingual nation and the varieties of its linguistic issues and
their social, cultural and political implications: the problems of
national languages, official orthographies, languages to be taught in
schools; language policy; and language planning. Different aspects of
multilingualism, Nigeria as a case study: language situation,
mulitglossic nature of language functions, language choice, language
attitudes, plight and destiny of small group/minority language groups,
management of multilingualism/ language engineering in Nigeria;

-- 83 of 377 --

84
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
implications of multilingualism in Nigeria for other multingual
contexts.
ENG 411: English for Specific Purposes (3 C)
Adoption of English to particular circumstances and purposes;
specialised varieties of English: the language of Journalism,
bureaucracy, science and technology, ordinary conversation, etc. A
short project involving a particular field.
ENG 453: Language and National Development (3 E)
Relationship between language and national development,
relationship between language and individuals and societal
development, language and the economy, language and national
mobilisation, language and national unity and integration, language
and national ideology, language and a patriotic culture, language and
nationalism, language and national health, language and economic
wellbeing, language and infrastructural facilities, language and social
attitudes, language and social culture. Constraints placed on national
development by the linguistic situations in developing African
nations; language as the most effective means of human
communication; language as the cornerstone of mass participation in
the development process.
ENG 414: Speech Writing (3 E)
What speech writing entails. The communication process and the
context of speech writing. Basic principles of speech writing. Types
of speeches e.g. expository, analytical etc steps of quality speech
writing e.g. choosing topics, sourcing information etc. Logic and style
in speech writing. Review of selected speeches.

-- 84 of 377 --

85
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Table 5: B.A. Ed French
( a )100 Level First Semester
( b) Second Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit(s)
Status
GST 102 Use of English and
Communication Skills II
2 C
EDU 112 Professionalism in Teaching 2 C
EDU 114 History of Education in Nigeria 2 C
FRE 112 Oral & Aural Comprehension 2 C
FRE 122 French Grammar II 2 C
FRE 132 Textual Analysis II 2 C
FRE 152 Intro. To French Culture and 2 C
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit(s)
Status
GST 101 Use of English and
Communication Skills I
2 C
GST 105 History and Philosophy of
Science
2 C
GST 107 The Good Study Guide 2 C
EDU 111 Foundations of education 2 C
FRE 111 Language Laboratory
Work/Oral French
2 C
FRE 121 French Grammar I 2 C
FRE 131 Textual Analysis I 2 C
FRE 141 Intro. To Composition Writing
in French
2 C
Minimum Credit Units
Required
GST and other General
Courses
Core Courses (Educ and
Specialisation Area)
Sub-Total =
Maximum Credit Unit
6
10
16
24

-- 85 of 377 --

86
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
civilisation
FRE 162 Intro. To Francophone African
Culture and Civilisation
2 C
Minimum Credit Units Required
GST and other General Courses
Core Courses (Educ and
Specialisation Area)
Sub-Total =
Maximum Credit Unit
2
14
16
24
( c ) 200 Level First Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit(s)
Status
GST 203 Introduction to Philosophy and
Logic
2 C
EDU 231 Curriculum Development Theory
and Practice
2 C
EDU 233 General Teaching Methods 2 C
FRE 211 Advanced Studies in Oral and
Written Comprehension I
2 C
FRE 221 French Grammar and composition
I
2 C
FRE 231 Introduction to French Phonology 2 C
FRE 271 Introduction to Francophone
African Literature (Prose, Poetry
and Drama)
2 C
Minimum Credit Units Required
GST and other General Courses
Core Courses (Educ and
Specialisation Area)
Sub-Total =
Maximum Credit Unit
2
12
14
24
( d ) Second Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit(s)
Status
GST 202 Fundamentals of Peace and
Conflict Resolution
2 C

-- 86 of 377 --

87
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
EDU 212 Sociology of Education 2 C
EDU 214 Philosophy of Education 2 C
EDU 222 French Methods 2 C
FRE 212 Advanced Oral French 3 C
FRE 222 French Grammar & Composition II 3 C
FRE 282 Intro. to French Literature (Prose,
Poetry & Drama)
2 C
Minimum Credit Units Required
GST and other General Courses
Core Courses (Educ &
Specialisation Area)
Sub-Total =
Maximum Credit Unit
2
14
16
24
( e) 300 LEVEL First Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit(s)
Status
GST 301 Entrepreneurship Studies 2 C
EDU 321 Psychology of Learning 2 C
EDU 323 Basic Research Methods in
Education
2 C
EDU 335 Teaching Practice I 3 C
FRE 301 Intro. To Translation 3 C
FRE 321 Advanced Studies in French
Language structure 1
3 C
FRE 331 Advanced Studies in French
Phonetics
3 C
Minimum Credit Units Required
GST and other General Courses
Core Courses (Educ and
Specialisation Area)
Sub-Total =
Maximum Credit Unit
2
16
18
24

-- 87 of 377 --

88
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
(f ) Second Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit(s)
Status
EDU 332 Intro. To Educational Technology 2 C
EDU 314 Comparative Education 2 C
EDU 336 Post Teaching Practice Evaluation
and Remediation
2 C
FRE 322 Advanced Studies in French
Language Structure II
3 C
FRE 372 Advanced Studies in Pre-
Independence Francophone
African Literature (Prose and
Drama)
3 C
FRE 392 Advanced Studies in Translation
(Theme and Version)
3 C
Minimum Credit Units Required
GST and other General Courses
Core Courses (Educ and
Specialisation Area)
Sub-Total =
Maximum Credit Unit
0
15
15
24
( g ) 400 Level First Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit
Status
EDU 421 Guidance and Counselling 2 C
EDU 423 Measurement and evaluation 2 C
EDU 435 Teaching Practice I 3 C
FRE 421 Advanced Studies in French
Language Structure 111
2 C
FRE423 Linguistics Applied to the
Teaching of French
2 C
FRE 411 Introduction to Research in French 3 C
Minimum Credit Units Required
GST and other General Courses
Core Courses (Educ and
0
14

-- 88 of 377 --

89
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Specialisation Area)
Sub-Total =
Maximum Credit Unit
14
24
( h) Second Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit
Status
EDU 412 Educational Management 2 C
EDU 420 Research Project 4 C
EDU 426 Special Education 2 C
ENG 454 Multilingualism 3 C
FRE 422 Advanced Studies in French
Language Structure IV
2 C
FRE 482 20TH Century French Literature 2 C
Minimum Credit Units Required
GST and other General Courses
Core Courses (Educ and
Specialisation Area)
Sub-Total =
Maximum Credit Unit
0
15
15
24
Course Content Specification
GST 101: Use of English and Communication Skills I
(2C)
Listening enabling skills, listening and comprehending
comprehension, note taking and information retrieval. Including data,
figures, diagrams and charts. Listening for main idea, interpretation
and critical evaluation. Effective reading. Skimming and scanning.
Reading and comprehension at various speed levels. Vocabulary
development in various academic contexts. Reading diverse texts in
narratives and expository. Reading and comprehension passages with
tables, scientific texts. Reading for interpretation and critical
evaluation.

-- 89 of 377 --

90
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
GST 102: Use Of English and Communication Skills Ii (2C)
Writing paragraphs: Topic sentence and coherence. Development of
paragraphs: illustration, Description, cause and effect including
definitions. Formal letters; essential parts and stylistic forms,
complaints and requests; jobs, ordering goods, letters to government
and other organisations. Writing reports; reporting event,
experiments. Writing summaries: techniques of summarising letters
and sounds in English, vowels and consonants. Interviews, seminar
presentation, public speech making, articles, concord and sentences
including tenses. Gerund, participles, active, passive and the
infinitive. Modal auxiliaries.
GST 105: History and Philosophy of Science (2 C)
Nature of science, scientific methods and theories, law of nature,
history of science, lost sciences of African, science, technology and
inventions, nature and scope of philosophy in science, man, nature
and his origin, man, environment and resources, Great Nigerian
Scientists
GST 107: The Good Study Guide (2 C)
Getting Started: How to use the book, why read about study skills,
getting yourself organised, what is studying all about, reading and
note-taking: introduction, reactions to reading, your reading strategy,
memory, taking notes, conclusion. Other ways of studying:
Introduction, learning in groups, talks and lectures, learning from T.V
and Radio broadcasts, other study media. Working with numbers:
Getting to know numbers, describing the world, describing the tables,
describing with diagrams and graphs, what is good writing? The
importance of writing, what does an essay look like, what is a good
essay, conclusion. How to write essays: Introduction, the craft of
writing, the advantages of treating essay writing as a craft, making
your essay flow, making a convincing case, the experience of writing.
Preparing for examination.

-- 90 of 377 --

91
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
EDU111: Introduction to Foundations of Education (2C)
Philosophical and psychological perspective, philosophy of
education, meaning and relevance, equality of educational
opportunity, psychology of education, introduction to learning
theories, readiness to learning, motivation and its relation to learning,
transfer of learning, historical and sociological perspective, concept
and nature of education, types of education, the growth of education
in Nigeria, educational trends in Nigeria, innovations in education,
the status of teachers in Nigeria, education and society, social class
and educational opportunity, factors that influence education.
EDU 112: Professionalism in Teaching (2 C)
Concepts and issues in teaching, concepts of teaching and
professionalism, history of teaching in Nigeria, professional growth
of teachers, educating the educators, professional studies programmes
for teachers, the teacher and the child, why teachers should care, the
making of ideal teacher, qualities of an ideal teacher, the role of the
teacher, the Nigerian Union of Teachers (NUT), the role of Parent
Teachers Association (PTA), the subject teachers association, the
status of teachers in Nigeria, strategies for making teaching a
profession.
EDU 114: History of Education in Nigeria (2 C)
Nigeria traditional education, higher education in traditional society,
Islamic education in Nigeria, in Nigeria, the early missionaries and
the development of education in Nigeria, colonial government
involvement in Nigeria Education 1872 – 1882, Education
Ordinances 1887 – 1916, the impact of Phelps – Stokes Commission
on Education in Northern Nigeria, Secondary Education from 1859 –
1929, Higher Education, The National Curriculum Conference and
the National Policy on Education.
CIT 101: Computers in Society (2 E)
Overview of the discipline of computer science. General structure of
a computer system. Historical development of computer systems,
generations of computer system, computer operations, internal
structure of a computer hardware. Micro computer technology,
computer numbering system, computer arithmetic, computer data

-- 91 of 377 --

92
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
representative schemes, problem solving with computers. Elements of
programming languages, internets, basic file processing concepts.
Computer programming using VISUAL BASIC programming
language. Algorithms, data structures and logic.
ENG 111: Introduction to Literature and Literary
Criticism (3E)
General introduction to literature; nature, forms, elements, functions
and techniques of literature; study of the basic principles and methods
of literary criticism. Texts representing the three major genres-
poetry, drama, and prose fiction will be used for illustration and
practice.
ENG 162: Elements of Drama (2 E)
Nature of drama; its various elements, forms and artistic features.
Selected African and non – African plays are studied in detail to
illustrate these, such as Soyinka’s Trials of Brother Jero, Song of a
Goat, and Sophocles’ Oedipus Rex.
FRE 111: Language Laboratory Work/Oral French (2C)
Development of skills in written and verbal communication that
enhance reading, writing, listening and speaking skills, Definition and
Identification of Oral vowel sounds, Definition and Identification of
Nasal vowel and semi-vowel sounds, Definition, Identification and
general consideration of Consonant sounds, Definition, Identification,
usage and general consideration of Silent letters in French, Definition,
Identification, usage and general consideration of French accents in
pronunciation, Definition, Identification, usage and general
consideration of The principles of liaison in French, Definition,
Identification, usage and general consideration of Élision and
enchaînement in French, Intonation and stress in French, French
diphthongs and triphthongs, Reading skills development and
Pronouncing difficult words, Pronunciation of verb endings, Liaison,
élision and enchaînement, Intonation in texts, monothongs,
diphthongs and triphthongs; greetings and introduction, Buying and
Selling, Consulting professionals for services, Telephone
conversations, Hotel and Restaurant, Dictation exercises

-- 92 of 377 --

93
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
FRE 152: Introduction to French Culture and Civilisation
(2C)
Historical and Geographical perspective of France, The Renaissance
period, The Revolution of 1789, The Socio-Political Implications of
the Revolution, The Republics, Political live, Imperialism, Industrial
Revolution and Colonisation; French cultural, social political and
economic life in France and how it affects cultural development in
Francophone African countries; Teaching and learning in France,
Religion in France, Festivals in France, Music and Song in France,
Marriage and Family in France, French Economy, Transportation,
Leisure and Tourism, Social Security, Trade Unionism and the
Francophony.
FRE 141: Introduction to Composition Writing in French
(2C)
Development of skills in the practice of writing French with emphasis
on narrative and descriptive forms. Definition of Composition, Types
of composition, Definition of Essay, Types of Essay: Narrative,
Descriptive and Empirical, Definition of Narrative Essay, Definition
of Descriptive Essay, Definition of Empirical Essay, Method of
Writing good Composition, Examples of Narrative Essay, Examples
of Descriptive Essay, Examples of Empirical Essay.
FRE 112: French Conversation (2 U)
Definition of oral French, the scope of Oral French in the teaching
and learning of French language, Utilisation of French and
Francophone documents (songs, short plays, etc) to help the students
to communicate and express themselves freely, Method of creation of
vocabulary, Method of conversing in French Language.
FRE 121: French Grammar I (2 C)
Identification, formation, analysis and grammatical usage of Parts of
speech in French: Article, Noun, Pronoun, Adjective, Verb, Adverb,
Preposition, Conjunction and Interjection; Definition of each of these
parts of speech, their importance in Grammar of French, how to use
them in forming grammatically correct sentences.

-- 93 of 377 --

94
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
FRE 122: French Grammar 11 (2 C)
Identification of conjugation groups, Conjugation of er and other
regular verbs into présent de l’indicatif, Conjugation of re irregular
verbs into présent de l’indicatif, Conjugation of ir/oir irregular verbs
into présent de l’indicatif, Conjugation of impersonal and reflexive
verbs into présent de l’indicatif , Conjugation of er and other regular
verbs into futur simple, Conjugation of irregular verbs into futur
simple, Conjugation of impersonal and reflexive verbs into futur
simple, Conjugation of verbs with auxiliary avoir into passé compose,
Conjugation with auxiliary être into passé compose, Conjugation of
impersonal and reflexive verbs into passé compose, Agreement of
passé compose, Conjugation of er and other regular verbs into
l’imparfait, Conjugation of irregular verbs into present de l’imparfait,
Conjugation of impersonal and reflexive verbs into l’imparfait,
Conjugation of verbs into imperative (positive and negative),
Conjugation of verbs into conditionnel present, Conjugation of verbs
into conditionnel passé, Conjugation of verbs into subjonctif present,
Conjugation of verbs into subjonctif passé,
FRE 131: Textual Analysis I (2 C)
Definition, Identification, formation, analysis and grammatical usage
of Textual Analyses to teach Grammar of French, Methods of Textual
Analyses, Types of texts to be analysed, Critical and Logical study
French texts so as to be able to analyse them grammatically,
Derivation and Explanation of Grammatical Analyses derived from
texts analysed.
FRE 132: Textual Analysis II (2 C)
Advanced definition, Identification, formation, analysis and
grammatical usage of Textual Analyses to teach Grammar of French,
Methods of Textual Analyses, Types of texts to be analysed, Critical
and Logical study French texts so as to be able to analyse them
grammatically, Advanced and explicit Explanation of Grammatical
Analysis derived from texts analysed. This Course is a follow up to
FRE 109.

-- 94 of 377 --

95
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
FRE 162: Introduction to Negro African Culture and Civilisation
(2 C)
Historical and Geographical perspective of Francophone African
Countries, The Social life of Francophone African Countries, The
Political life of Francophone African Countries, The cultural life of
Francophone African Countries, The economic life of Francophone
African Countries, Teaching and learning in Francophone African
Countries, Religion in Francophone African Countries, Festivals in
Francophone African Countries, Music and Song in Francophone
African Countries, Marriage and Family in Francophone African
Countries, Economy of Francophone African Countries,
Transportation in Francophone African Countries, Leisure and
Tourism in Francophone African Countries, Trade Unionism in
Francophone African Countries, Francophone African Countries and
the Francophony.
GST 202: Fundamentals of Peace and Conflict Resolution
(2C)
Basic Understanding of Conflict; Definitions, Causes and Types of
Conflict, Conflict Theories, Phases in Conflict, Conflict Analysis &
Transformation. Dynamics of Conflict; Relationship between Perception
and Conflict, Language Barriers in Conflict and Resolution, Early Warning
and Early Response Mechanism, Arms Control and Demilitarisation, Peace
and Education. Trends in Global Issues: International, Continental and
Regional Organisations in the Pursuance of World Peace, Peaceful
Methods of Conflict Resolution, Coercive Means of Conflict Resolution,
Gender Issues and Humanitarian Intervention.
GST 203: Introduction to Philosophy and Logic (2 C)
Fundamentals of logic and critical thinking; types of discourse; nature
of arguments; validity and soundness; techniques for evaluating
arguments; distinction between inductive and deductive inferences;
etc. Illustrations from familiar texts, including literature materials,
novels, law reports and newspaper publications
EDU 231: Curriculum Development Theory and Practice (2C)
History of Curriculum Development in Nigeria: The importance of
curriculum, Curriculum Development and/or Improvement in a

-- 95 of 377 --

96
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
developing country like Nigeria, Participants in Curriculum
Planning:- Levels of Planning, Approaches to Planning, Curriculum
Decisions:- Different Stages of Curriculum Decision, The 1969
National Curriculum Conference as a Case Study, Force affecting
Curriculum Decisions, Aims and Objectives of Nigeria Education,
Selection of Learning Experience:- Criteria for Selection, Programme
of Studies, Programme of Activities, Programme of Guidance,
Organisation of Learning Experience:- Traditional Organisation of
Curriculum, New Dimension in Organisation. Evaluation:- Evaluation
of Educational Programmes, Formative Evaluation (Action
Research), Summative Evaluation, Evaluation of the Achievement of
the Individual in the Programme:- Guidance – oriented Evaluation,
Selection – oriented Evaluation
EDU 212: Sociology of Education (2 C)
Definition of Sociology, Education and Pedagogy from Sociological
Perspective, Education and Society, Theory of Knowledge, Principles
of the Sociology of Knowledge, Socialisation:- Culture and
Personality, Education and Social Frame Work:- The Family and
Education, Education and Social Stratification – the Nigeria Elites,
Education and Social Values, Moral Education in Changing Society;
Education, Social Justice and the Teacher, Equality in Education,
Freedom in Education. The Social Functions of Education –
Education and Social Change, Education and Social Economic
Development, The Political function of Education, The Sociology of
Teaching:- The Teacher and his Role; The Reluctant Learner, The
Teacher in the Classroom, Social Relations in the School.
EDU 233: General Teaching Methods (2 C)
The Teacher and the Child, How children learn, Professional attitudes
and understanding of learners, The aims of the Teaching, The Stages
In Lesson Preparation:- The Syllabus, The Scheme of work, Lesson
Notes; Steps in preparation of notes, The problem of time –table.
General Teaching Methods:- Induction Method, Deduction Method,
Induction and Deduction Methods, The Lecture Method, Dramatic
Method, Questioning and Problem Methods, The Project Methods,
Activities in the Lesson, The Art of Classroom Management:-
Qualities of a good teacher, Some common bad habits to avoid,

-- 96 of 377 --

97
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Dealing with the problem of discipline in class. Questions and
Questioning, Students Natural Curiosity and Enquiry, Aims in
Questing, Questions in Classroom: The teacher’s questions, the
pupil’s questions, Guidelines for questioning. Testing and
Examinations, the purpose of testing, what to test, How and when to
test, Characteristics of a good test, types of tests, marks and
Assignments, Purpose of marking and assignments, Giving and
marking assignments, Awarding and assigning marks and grades,
methods of Study, Use of test book, Art of Note-Making,
Organisation of work, Revision and review of work, Physical
environment of the classroom, Preparation for examination. Use of
Audio-Visual Aids, Importance of Audio-visual in teaching, Types of
Audio-visual Aids and their uses.
EDU 214: Philosophy of Education (2 C)
Explaining concepts of education, (Aims: - goals, objectives, end,
means); Philosophy and philosophers; Curriculum: The nature of
education in Nigeria (metaphysics) – formal and informal education,
auxiliary education, Liberal and vocational education. Knowledge and
education in Nigeria – (Epistemology) Definitions of knowledge,
Types of knowledge; Knowledge by divine revelation, By institution
Prior knowledge, Posteriori knowledge, Need for knowledge in
modern Nigeria morality and education (axiology) Define concepts of
morality and education, Determinants of good education, Logic and
education, Inductive and Deductive methods of teaching; Logic and
curriculum planning, Logic and School Administration; Discipline;
Freedom, Determination and Free will.
EDU 222: French Methods (2 C)
Theories of Language Teaching, the Direct Method-oracy before
Literacy, the Indirect Method-translations, Pronunciation Nasal
Vowels, final consonants, voiced consonants, sibilants, z, s, ch, j
consonant grouping, Audio visual aids, grammar, Essay writing,
Socio linguistic nature and function of language, political and a real
linguistics.

-- 97 of 377 --

98
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
EDU 301: Entrepreneurship Education (2 C)
Definition of Entrepreneurship, Relationship Between
Entrepreneurship and Small Business Management, Factors of
Entrepreneurship; Dealing with External Factors of Entrepreneurship;
Factors of Production; Profit and Other Objectives of an
Entrepreneur, the Business Environment, Understanding Viability
Study; Needs and Characteristics of Consumers; Mission and
Enterprise Objectives; Export Market Shares; Target Market; Income
Determination; Break-even Point, Size of the Business, Location
Factors; Financial Requirements Forms of Ownership; Business Plan.
Risk Analysis; Legal Requirements; Staffing, Purchasing; Production;
Management.
ENG 251: Language and Society (3 E)
Language as a Social phenomenon and its functions; social factors of
language use; Language varieties: Dialect, accent and sociolect;
register; style; standard, non- standard, native and non-native;
deviant/restricted varieties (slang, jargon, grafitti); new varieties
(email, text messaging); languages in contact (pidgin and Creole);
Language typologies; anthropology; language learning and language
acquisition; bilingualism/multilingualism; language policy; language
planning, maintenance, shift and death; discourse analysis; code
switching, interference and borrowing; linguistic imperialism;
sociolinguistic situation of Nigeria; sociolinguistics and other
disciplines.
FRE 231: Introduction to French Phonology (2 C)
Definition of French phonology, General introduction to French
phonology, Scope of French phonology, Nature of French phonology,
Methods of Phonological inquiry and analyses in French phonology,
Comparative Studies of Relationship between Phonetics and French
Phonology, Comparative Studies of structural framework of
Phonetics and French Phonology , Basic principles of French
phonology, Basic tenets and analysis of French phonology based on
the phonetic theories, Application of the distinctive feature theory to
French phonology and Application of the generative phonology to
French phonology.

-- 98 of 377 --

99
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
FRE 211: Advanced Study in Oral and Written
Comprehension (2C)
Definition and Identification of various registers of French language,
Critical and Analytical Study of French and Francophone Newspaper
Articles, Critical and Analytical Study of French and Francophone
Official and Administrative Document, Critical and Analytical Study
of French and Francophone Commercial Documents, Critical and
Analytical Study of French and Francophone Scientific Documents,
Critical and Analytical Study of French and Francophone Technical
Documents, Critical and Analytical Study of French and Francophone
Literary Documents and Excerpts.
FRE 221: French Grammar and Composition I (2 C)
Grammatical analysis from Morphological point of view, Definition
of French Morphology, Scope of French Morphology, Branches and
Types of French Morphology; Definitions, form, Types and Uses of
‘‘Emprunts’’ (Borrowing) in French Morphology; Definitions, form,
Types and Uses of Affixations in French Morphology; Definitions,
form, Types and Uses of ‘‘Les Compositions’’ (Compounding) in
French Morphology; Definitions, form, Types and Uses of ‘‘Les
Onomatopeas’’ in French Morphology; Definitions, form, Types and
Uses of ‘‘Les Initiaux ou Les Acronymes’’ (Acronyms) in French
Morphology; Definitions, form, Types and Uses of ‘‘Les Mots
coupés’’ (Shortened Words) in French Morphology; Importance of
French Morphology. Definitions of Compositions, Types of
Compositions, Methods of writing good Composition.
FRE 271: Introduction to Francophone African
Literature (Prose, Poetry and Drama) (3 C)
Definition of Negro African literature written in French, Focus of
Negro African literature written in French, Scope of Negro African
literature written in French, Historical Perspective/Origin of Negro
African literature written in French, Importance of Negro African
literature written in French, The three types of Genre in Negro
African literature written in French: Poetry, Prose and Drama.
Literary appreciation through figures of speech in Negro African
literature written in French, Analysis of the aesthetic function of
Negro African literature written in French, Messages or Philosophy of

-- 99 of 377 --

100
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Negro African literature written in French, Movements or Schools of
thought in Negro African literature written in French such as
Negritude, Colonial era, Pre-Independence Negro African literature
written in French, Post-Independence Negro African literature written
in French etc.
FRE 282: Introduction to French Literature (Prose, Poetry and
Drama) (2 C)
Definition of French literature, Focus of French literature, Scope of
French literature, Historical Perspective/Origin of French literature,
Importance of French literature, The three types of Genre in French
Literature: Poetry, Prose and Drama. Literary appreciation through
figures of speech, Analysis of the aesthetic function of French
Literature, Messages or Philosophy of French literature, Movements
or Schools of thought in French literature such as “Le Classicme, Le
Romantisme” etc.
FRE 222: French Grammar and Composition II (3 C)
Grammatical analysis from Semantological point of view, Definition
of French Semantics, Scope of French Semantics, Branches and
Types of French Semantics; Definitions, form, Types and Uses of
Synonyms in French Semantics; Definitions, form, Types and Uses of
Antonyms in French Semantics; Definitions, form, Types and Uses of
Homonyms in French Semantics; Definitions, form, Types and Uses
of Homophones in French Semantics; Definitions, form, Types and
Uses of Homographs in French Semantics; Importance of French
Semantology. Definition, Analyses and Use of Noun Phrase,
Determinants, Adjective and Adjectival Phrase, Verbal Phrase,
Adverbial Phrase and Prepositional Phrase. Conjugation and
Utilisation of Verbs conjugated into plus-que parfait, the ‘‘passé’’
anterieur” and the futur anterieur’ of the indicative mood, present de
l’indicatif and the past tenses. Advanced Definitions of Compositions,
Illustration of Various Types of Compositions and Utilisation of
Various Methods of Writing good Composition.
FRE 212: Advanced Oral French (3 C)
Advanced definitions of oral French, the scope of Oral French in the
teaching and learning of French language, Advanced manner in

-- 100 of 377 --

101
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
handling and utilising French and Francophone documents (songs,
short plays, etc) to help the students to communicate and express
themselves freely, Advanced method of creation of vocabulary,
Advanced method of conversing in French Language.
EDU 321: Psychology of Learning (2 C)
Definitions of psychology and learning; Theories of learning and the
theorists levels of motivation and implication for education; Memory
and forgetting, Types of memory, Method of improving memory,
Types of forgetting, Factors influencing forgetting, Implication for
education; Cognitive theory of learning; Reinforcement and
punishment and classroom application; Behaviourism, Contributions
of behavioral psychologists and classroom application; Transfer of
learning and classroom application, S – R theory of Thorndike –
Skinner, Meaning of S – R, The Laws of readiness, Exercise and
effect; Punishment; Classroom application.
EDU 332: Introduction to Educational Technology (2 C)
Definition of Instructional Technology, its Philosophy, Terminology,
Roles of Instructional Technology in the Learning Process; The
experience, Theory of Learning, learning and Communication in the
classroom, Learning has changed behaviour, The teacher’s
responsibilities, Selecting and using materials and media in
Instructional, Visual aids, Non-projected aids, Projectors, Projected
aids, Audio-visual aids, Creating Instructional Materials, Duplicators,
Equipment Operation, projection, Recording.
EDU 323: Basic Research Methods in Education
(2 C)
Meaning of Research; Scientific method of research, Selection of the
topic, Subjects etc for research; Purposes of research studies;
Guidelines in selection of topics, Preparing a research proposal,
Statement of the problem; Determination of data required;
Hypothetical conclusions and implication, Collecting information and
data; Observation and interview methods, Basic consideration in data
collection; The correspondence method; Analysis and interpretation
of Data; Basic statistical concept and Their Computation, Designs of
Experiments:- Basic types of errors; Simple Randomised Design,

-- 101 of 377 --

102
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Random – Replications Design; Groups- within – Treatment design;
Treatment of extra venous variables, Scaling Problems and
Techniques:- Rating Scales, Rank-order Scales, etc, Determination of
Scale Value
EDU 314: Comparative Education (2 C)
Scope and meaning of education, examination of significant
differences and similarities in education policy and practices in
selected societies, problems of educational development in
developing countries.
EDU 335: Teaching Practice I (4 C)
Students learn through practical experience how to teach particular
subjects, manage a classroom and the functions of a good teacher.
EDU 336: Post Teaching Practice Evaluation/Remediation (2C)
The student is required to write a comprehensive report on his/her
experiences in practical implementation of teaching/learning
strategies in the classroom as applied to the subject area. The report
should include:
• Challenges encountered during the teaching practice
• The lesson notes used during the teaching practice
• Assessment questions as well as the marking guides used
• Assessment of teaching practice supervision by the supervisor,
and
• Suggestions for improvement.
The report should be submitted by the student to the Dean through the
study centre Director for:
• Evaluation
• Feedback, and
• Remediation.
The result of the overall process should be communicated to the
student from the Dean through the study centre Director.

-- 102 of 377 --

103
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
ENG 352: Discourse Analysis (3 C)
Introduction to the principles and practice of discourse analysis;
practical analysis, study, and description of relevant textual materials.
FRE 331: Advanced Studies in French Phonetics
(3 C)
Definitions of Phonetics, Scope of Phonetics, Nature of Phonetics,
Branches and Types of Phonetics, Importance of Phonetics in the
Language Study, Phonetics and the Linguistic Movements; Phonetics
and the Traditional School of Thought, Phonetics and the Structural
School of Thought, Phonetics and the Generative School of Thought,
Current Trends in the Study of Phonetics, Methods of Phonetical
Analyses of Sounds, Practical Examples of Phonetical Analysis as
they affect French Language.
FRE 372: Advanced Studies in Pre-Independence Francophone
African Literature (Prose and Drama) (3 C)
Definitions of Pre-Independence Francophone African literature
written in French, Focus of Pre-Independence Francophone African
literature written in French, Scope of Pre-Independence Francophone
African literature written in French, Historical Perspective/Origin of
Pre-Independence Francophone African literature written in French,
The Influence of Negritude on Pre-Independence Francophone
African literature written in French, Importance of Pre-Independence
Francophone African literature written in French, Pre-Independence
Francophone African literature written in French and the Verbal War
against Colonialism, Prose and Drama in Pre-Independence
Francophone African literature written in French,. Literary
appreciation through figures of speech in Pre-Independence
Francophone African literature written in French, Analysis of the
aesthetic function of Pre-Independence Francophone African
literature written in French, Messages or Philosophy of Pre-
Independence Francophone African literature written in French
FRE 381: Advanced Studies in French Literature in The 17th
Century (Prose and Drama) (3 C)
Focus of 17th Century French literature, Scope of 17th Century French
literature, Historical Perspective/Origin of 17th Century French

-- 103 of 377 --

104
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
literature, 17th Century Socio-Political Events that facilitated and
influenced the emergence of the literary works of that period,
Importance of 17th Century French literature, Analysis of the three
types of Genre in the 17th Century French Literature: Poetry, Prose
and Drama. Literary appreciation through figures of speech of the 17th
Century, Analysis of the aesthetic function of the 17th Century French
Literature, Messages or Philosophy of 17th Century French literature,
Analysis of the Influence and Dominance of ‘‘Academie Française’’
and the ‘‘Classicme’’ Movement on the 17th Century French
Literature.
FRE 382: French Literature in the 18th Century (3 C)
Focus of 18th Century French literature, Scope of 18th Century French
literature, Historical Perspective/Origin of 18th Century French
literature, 18th Century Socio-Political Events that facilitated and
influenced the emergence of the literary works of that period,
Importance of 18th Century French literature, Analysis of the three
types of Genre in the 18th Century French Literature: Poetry, Prose
and Drama. Literary appreciation through figures of speech of the 18th
Century, Analysis of the aesthetic function of the 18th Century French
Literature, Messages or Philosophy of 18th Century French literature,
Analysis of the Influence and Dominance of ‘‘Pré-romantisme’’
Movement on the 18th Century French Literature, Analysis of the
Influence and Dominance of authors such as Diderot, Voltaire,
Rousseau etc. on the 18th Century French Literature.
EDU 421: Guidance and Counselling (2 C)
Meaning, Purpose and Development of Guidance and Counselling,
The services of a School Guidance programme; - The individual
appraisal service. Information needed for the analysis of the
individual, collection of information (test, inventories etc).
Organising recording and filing information; Use of recorded
information; Information service:- Vocational Education and Personal
Social Information, Methods of obtaining and Disseminating
information; The Counseling Service:- Nature, Purpose and Theories
of Counseling; The Counsellor and the counseling process, The
Placement Service in School and out-of School placement, follow up
studies; Purposes of and procedures in follow-up studies, Problems in

-- 104 of 377 --

105
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Guidance and counseling:- Values and attitude orientation, Guidance
as Classroom or Specialist Centered, Guidance as Direction or
Developments, Problems of Social change, Relation with other
Personnel and Services:-Counsellor and School Administration,
Relationship with teachers, Extra – School Relationship, Working
with Parents and Making Referential, Guidance:- Organisation and
Implementation, Preparation of Occupational, Information,
Practicum; Preparing and using Cumulative records.
EDU 412: Educational Management (2C)
Define educational administration, Educational law and the control of
Education in Nigeria, The organisation of the Ministry of Education
and the function of boards of education, the Nigerian Educational
system, the school and the community, Bureaucracy and decision
making in educational administration, human relations in Educational
administration, Educational Leadership, the role of the principal, staff
personnel administration, supervision of instruction, Admission
Procedures, Student’s records and reports, Student’s discipline and
welfare, Student organisation and participation in School
Administration, Principle of planning, School finance and accounting
system, School routine and time table, The school plant and facilities,
Examinations and the problems of academic standards, Evaluation
and school inspection.
EDU 423: Measurement and Evaluation (2 C)
Definition and purpose of Measurement and Evaluation, Importance
of Tests in Education; Validity of Tests in Educational Achievement;
Functions of classroom tests, Criteria for effective testing, Problems
of tests construction; Measurement of educational outcomes,
Behavioral cognitive and non-cognitive of education, Pupils
characteristics to be measured, Types of tests, Essay and objective
type tests advantages and disadvantages of each, when to use each of
them. Tests Administration and Scoring, Judging the Quality of a
Classroom test, Estimating, Interpreting and improving reliability of
test, Validity of Classroom Tests, Problem of Marking Tests, and
Quality Control in Marking System.

-- 105 of 377 --

106
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
EDU 420: Research Project (4 C)
An application of the research methods and data processing course to
a field experience under the guidance of a selected facilitator.
EDU 426: Special Education (2 C)
Concept of special education, its definition and origins. Examination
of the terms integration, inclusion, and individualised education
programme within the context of special education. Giftedness, its
meaning, and causes as well as case studies of the gifted. The
education of gifted children. Hearing impairment and educational
considerations for the deaf. Visual impairment, its causes and history.
Educational considerations for visually impaired children.
EDU 435: Teaching Practice II (3 C)
A minimum of six weeks supervised exposure to classroom teaching
on field experience to demonstrate the degree of proficiency in
applying some of the basic theories of instruction.
ENG 454: Multilingualism (3 U)
The multilingual nation and the varieties of its linguistic issues and
their social, cultural and political implications: the problems of
national languages, official orthographies, languages to be taught in
schools; language policy; and language planning. Different aspects of
multilingualism, Nigeria as a case study: language situation,
mulitglossic nature of language functions, language choice, language
attitudes, plight and destiny of small group/minority language groups,
management of multilingualism/ language engineering in Nigeria;
implications of multilingualism in Nigeria for other multingual
contexts.
FRE 481: French Literature in The 19th Century (2 C)
Focus of 19th Century French literature, Scope of 19th Century French
literature, Historical Perspective/Origin of 19th Century French
literature, 19th Century Socio-Political Events that facilitated and
influenced the emergence of the literary works of that period,
Importance of 19th Century French literature, Analysis of the three
types of Genre in the 19th Century French Literature: Poetry, Prose
and Drama. Literary appreciation through figures of speech of the 19th

-- 106 of 377 --

107
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Century, Analysis of the aesthetic function of the 19th Century French
Literature, Messages or Philosophy of 19th Century French literature,
Analysis of the Influence and Dominance of ‘‘Romantisme’’
Movement on the 19th Century French Literature, Analysis of the
Influence and Dominance of authors such as Victor Hugo, Gustave
Flaubert, Abbé Prévost etc. on the 19th Century French Literature.
FRE 423: Linguistics Applied to the Teaching of French
(2C)
Definitions of basic linguistics concepts and principles; Identification
of Scope, Focus, Features and Importance of basic linguistics
concepts and principles; Methods of Learning French Language
through various Applied Linguistic Methods: social and pedagogical
contexts of learning phonetics, phonology, grammar, vocabulary and
stylistics and various problems that may arise in the course of
learning French.
FRE 482: French Literature in the 20th Century (2 E)
Focus of 20th Century French literature, Scope of 20th Century French
literature, Historical Perspective/Origin of 20th Century French
literature, 20th Century Socio-Political Events that facilitated and
influenced the emergence of the literary works of that period,
Importance of 20th Century French literature, Analysis of the three
types of Genre in the 20th Century French Literature: Poetry, Prose
and Drama. Literary appreciation through figures of speech of the 20th
Century, Analysis of the aesthetic function of the 20th Century French
Literature, Messages or Philosophy of 20th Century French literature,
Analysis of the Influence and Dominance of ‘‘L’Absurdité et la
Révolte camusiennes’’ as well as ‘‘L’Existentialisme sartrien’’
Movements on the 20th Century French Literature, Analysis of the
Influence and Dominance of authors such as Albert Camus and Jean-
Paul Sartre etc. on the 20th Century French Literature.
FRE 471: Advanced Studies in Post-Independence Francophone
African Literature (Prose and Drama) (2 C)
Definitions of Post-Independence Francophone African literature
written in French, Focus of Post-Independence Francophone African
literature written in French, Scope of Post-Independence Francophone

-- 107 of 377 --

108
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
African literature written in French, Historical Perspective/Origin of
Post-Independence Francophone African literature written in French,
The Influence of African Socio-Political Events on Post-
Independence Francophone African literature written in French,
Importance of Post-Independence Francophone African literature
written in French, Post-Independence Francophone African literature
written in French and the Verbal War against Neo-Colonialism, Prose
and Drama in Post-Independence Francophone African literature
written in French,. Literary appreciation through figures of speech in
Post-Independence Francophone African literature written in French,
Analysis of the aesthetic function of Post-Independence Francophone
African literature written in French, Messages or Philosophy of Post-
Independence Francophone African literature written
FRE 472: Francophone Literature (Pre and Post
Independence (2 C)
Definitions of Pre and Post Independence Francophone African
literature Poetry written in French, Focus of Pre and Post
Independence Francophone African literature Poetry written in
French, Scope of Pre and Post Independence Francophone African
literature Poetry written in French, Historical Perspective/Origin of
Pre and Post Independence Francophone African literature Poetry
written in French, The Influence of Negritude on Pre and Post
Independence Francophone African literature Poetry written in
French, The Influence of African Socio-Political Events on Pre and
Post Independence Francophone African literature Poetry written in
French, Importance of Pre and Post Independence Francophone
African literature Poetry written in French, Pre and Post
Independence Francophone African literature Poetry written in
French and the Verbal War against Colonialism and Neo-
Colonialism, Literary appreciation through figures of speech in Pre
and Post Independence Francophone African literature Poetry written
in French, Analysis of the aesthetic function of Pre and Post
Independence Francophone African literature Poetry written in
French, Messages or Philosophy of Pre and Post Independence
Francophone African literature Poetry written in French.

-- 108 of 377 --

109
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Table 6: B.A. (Ed) Primary Education 4211
(a) 100 Level First Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit(s)
Status
GST 101 Use of English & Communication
Skills I
2 C
GST 105 History and Philosophy of Science 2 C
GST 107 The Good Study Guide 2 C
EDU 111 Introduction to Foundations of
Education
2 C
ECE 121 Child Development 2 C
PED 121 Childhood and Adolescent
Psychology
2 C
ENG 151 Introduction to English as a
Second Language
2 C
CIT 101 Computers in Society 2 C
Total Credit Units –
Compulsory
16
*Students are to offer one elective course of two credit units.
*Direct Entry students are to offer GST101and 107.

-- 109 of 377 --

110
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
( b ) Second Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit(s)
Status
GST 102 Use of English and
Communication Skills Ii
2 C
EDU 112 Professionalism in Teaching 2 C
PED 144 Primary Maths Curriculum and
Methods
2 C
EDU 114 History of Education 2 C
PED 110 Philosophy of Primary Education 2 C
PED 122 Primary English Curriculum and
Methods
2 C
PED 112 Reading in Early Childhood and
Primary Education
2 C
PED 150 Primary Science Curriculum and
Methods
2 C
PED 130 Introduction to Social Studies 2 C
CIT 102 Software Application Skills 2 C
Total Credit Units –
Compulsory
20
*Students are to offer one elective course of two credit units.
( c ) 200 Level First Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit(s)
Status
GST 203 Introduction to Philosophy and
Logic
2 C
GST 201 Nigerian Peoples and Culture 2 C
EDU 231 Curriculum Development Theory
and Practice
2 C
EDU 233 General Teaching Methods 2 C
PED 221 Developmental Psychology 2 C
PED 233 Religious and Moral Education 2 C
PED 271 Primary School Curriculum and
Methods
2 C
PED 261 Primary School Social Studies 2 C

-- 110 of 377 --

111
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Curriculum and Methods
ECE 231 Science in Early Years 2 C
PED 237 Measurement and Shapes 2 C
ECE 221 Language and Literacy in the
Early Years
2 C
PED 235 Clothing and Textiles 2 E
Total Credit Units –
Compulsory
22
*Students are to offer one elective course of two credit units.
( d ) Second Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit(s)
Status
GST 202 Fundamentals of Peace Studies
and Conflict Resolution
2 C
EDU 212 Sociology of Education 2 C
EDU 214 Philosophy of Education 2 C
EDU 292 Primary Education Methods 2 C
PED 230 Introduction to Music In Primary
School
2 C
PED 234 Man, Energy and Resources 2 C
PED 236 Elementary Mathematics 2 C
EDU 216 Special Methods II (Micro
Teaching And School Visits)
2 C
Total Credit Units –
Compulsory
16
*Students are to offer one elective course of two credit units.
(e) 300 Level First Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit(s)
Status
GST 301 Entrepreneurship Studies 2 C
EDU 321 Psychology of Learning 2 C
EDU 323 Basic Research Methods and
Statistics in Education
3 C
EDU 335 Teaching Practice I 3 C

-- 111 of 377 --

112
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
ECE 313 Theories and Practice of Early
Childhood Education
2 C
PED 351 Adult Basic Education 2 C
PED 313 History and Cultural Background
of Immediate Environment
2 C
ECE 311 Introduction To Cultural and
Creative Arts
2 C
ENT 323 Entrepreneurial Development and
Small Business Management
2 C
Total Credit Units –
Compulsory
20
*Students are to offer one elective course of two credit units.
( f ) Second Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit(s)
Status
EDU 332 Educational Technology 2 C
EDU 314 Comparative Education 2 C
PED 322 Methods of Teaching Reading in
Primary Schools
2 C
PED 320 Family Education 2 C
PED 312 Fundamentals of Early Childhood
and Primary Education
2 C
PED 342 Methods of Teaching Creative
Arts in Early Childhood and
Primary Education
2 C
EDU 336 Post Teaching Practice
Evaluation/Remediation
2 C
EDU 302 ICT in Education 2 C
Total Credit Units –
Compulsory
16
*Students are to offer one elective course of two credit units.
( g ) 400 Level First Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit ( s)
Status
EDU 421 Fundamentals of Guidance and
Counselling
2 C

-- 112 of 377 --

113
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
EDU 423 Measurement and Evaluation 2 C
EDU 435 Teaching Practice II 3 C
PED 431 Continuous Assessment in Primary
School
2 C
PED 433 Children’s Literature 2 C
PED 421 Developmental Guidance in
Primary Education
2 C
ECE 421 Health and Family Life Education 2 C
PED 423 Seminar in Primary Education 2 C
Total Credit Units – Compulsory 17
( h ) Second Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit(s)
Status
EDU 412 Educational Management 2 C
EDU 420 Research Project 4 C
EDU 426 Special Education 2 C
PED 412 Organisation and Administration of
Primary Education
2 C
PED 420 Social Psychology of Instruction 2 C
PED 422 Behaviour Problems and the Primary
School Child
2 C
PED 410 Management Of Childhood
Institutions
2 C
ECE 410 Issues in Early Childhood and
Primary Education
2 C
PED 430 Design and Production of Learning
Materials for Primary School
2 C
Total Credit Units – Compulsory 20

-- 113 of 377 --

114
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Course Content Description
GST 101: Use of English and Communication Skills I
(2 C)
Listening Enabling Skills, Listening and Comprehending, Note
taking, Information Retrieval including Data, Figures, Diagrams and
Charts. Listening for Main Idea, Interpretation and Critical
Evaluation. Effective Reading, Skimming and Scanning, Reading and
Comprehending at Varying Speed Levels, Reading for Vocabulary
Development in Various Academic Contexts. Reading Diverse Texts;
Narratives and Expository Texts. Reading and Comprehending
Passages with Tables, Scientific Texts, Reading for Interpretation and
Critical Evaluation.
GST 105: History and Philosophy of Science (2 C)
Nature of Science, Scientific Methods and Theories, Laws of Nature,
History of Science; Origin of Western Science in Ancient Times,
Science in the Middle Ages of Europe, Rise of Modern Science,
Twentieth Century Scientific Revolution. Lost Sciences of Africa,
Science, Technology and Inventions, Nature and Scope of Philosophy
of Science, Man; His Nature and Origin, Cosmic Environment and
Natural Resources, Great Scientists of Nigerian Origin.
GST 107: The Good Study Guide (2 C)
Getting Started: How to use the book, Why read about study skills,
Getting yourself organized, What is studying all about, Reading and
Note-taking: Introduction, Reactions to reading, Your reading
strategy, Memory, Taking notes. Other ways of studying:
Introduction, Learning in groups, Talks and lectures, Learning from
T.V and Radio broadcasts, Other study media. Working with
numbers: Getting to know numbers, Describing the world, Describing
the tables, Describing with diagrams and graphs, What is good
writing? The importance of writing, What does an essay look like,
What is a good essay. How to write essays; Introduction, The craft of
writing, The advantages of treating essay writing as a craft, Making
your essay flow, Making a convincing case, The experience of
writing. Preparing for examination.

-- 114 of 377 --

115
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
EDU 111: Introduction to Foundations of Education (2C)
Philosophical and psychological perspective, philosophy of
education, meaning and relevance, equality of educational
opportunity, psychology of education, introduction to learning
theories, readiness to learning, motivation and its relation to learning,
transfer of learning, historical and sociological perspective, concept
and nature of education, types of education, the growth of education
in Nigeria, educational trends in Nigeria, innovations in education,
the status of teachers in Nigeria, education and society, social class
and educational opportunity, factors that influence education.
ECE 121: Child Development (2 C)
A broad introduction to nature and concept of the psychology of child
development from conception through the prenatal years to the
childhood and adolescent stages. The pre-school years, the school
years.
PED 121: Childhood and Adolescent Psychology (2 C)
Childhood and adolescent psychology and educational implication,
cognitive, social, moral, emotional and physical needs and
development of children, age 0 – 18 years, the normal and abnormal
child development and implications for classroom management and
teaching.
ENG 151: Introduction to English as a Second Language
(2C)
Domains and Status of Language; the spread of English worldwide;
Varieties of English in Nigeria; Standards and Deviations in English;
Language Nationism and Nationalism; Distinctions between ESL,
Pidgin and Creole; Aspects of Teaching English as A Second
Language; the teaching of Literature in English; Assessment of
learner’s in ESL. Social institutions (patterns, structures and
functions).

-- 115 of 377 --

116
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
ECE 113: Introduction to Philosophy of Early Childhood
Education (2E)
Meaning and definition of philosophy, philosophy of early childhood,
pre-primary education, concept and types of early childhood
education, the role expectation of the pre-primary school teacher,
implication for effective teaching, characteristics of preparing school
children and their implication to teaching, historical perspectives and
challenges, purposes and needs of pre-primary education, problems
perspectives and challenges of pre-primary education in Nigeria – A
way forward, the prospects of pre-primary education in Nigeria,
Plato (427-348 BC) and Aristotle (384-372 BC) Jean Jacques
Rousseau (1712-1778), John Amos Commenius (1592-1670), John
Heinrich Pestalozzi (1746-1827), Montessori (1870-1952), Frederich
W. Froebel (1782-1852) and John Dewey (1959-1962).
CIT 101: Computers in Society (2 C)
What is Computer, Elements of a Computer: Hardware and Software,
How to Work with a Computer, Operating Systems, and Files. Word
Processing: Introduction to Word Processing, Word Processing
Program Facilities, Copying text, Saving Changes, and Formatting.
Spreadsheet: Entering and Correcting Data, Using Formula, Numeric
Formats, Creating Charts, Charts from Non-adjacent Data, Embedded
Charts, Charts Links and Chart Types. PowerPoint and Presentations:
Presentation Screen, Creating New Presentations, Naming
Presentations, Saving Presentations and Formatting Slides, Using
Auto-shapes. Networking, Internet and Electronic mail.
ECE 113: Philosophy of Early Childhood Education
(2 C)
Meaning and definition of philosophy, philosophy of early childhood,
pre-primary education, concept and types of early childhood
education, the role expectation of the pre-primary school teacher,
implication for effective teaching, characteristics of preparing school
children and their implication to teaching, historical perspectives and
challenges, purposes and needs of pre-primary education, problems
perspectives and challenges of pre-primary education in Nigeria – A
way forward, the prospects of pre-primary education in Nigeria,
Plato (427-348 BC) and Aristotle (384-372 BC) Jean Jacques

-- 116 of 377 --

117
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Rousseau (1712-1778), John Amos Commenius (1592-1670), John
Heinrich Pestalozzi (1746-1827), Montessori (1870-1952), Frederich
W. Froebel (1782-1852) and John Dewey (1959-1962).
GST 102: Use Of English and Communication Skills Ii
(2C)
Writing Paragraphs; Topic Sentence and Coherence, Development of
Paragraphs; Illustration, Description, Cause and Effect, Definitions.
Formal Letters; Stylistic Forms, Essential Parts, Complaints and
Requests, Letters about Jobs, Ordering Goods, Letters to Government
and Other Organisations. Writing Reports; Reporting Events and
Experiments. Writing Summaries; Techniques of Summarising.
Letters and Sounds in English, Vowels and Consonants, Interviews,
Seminar Presentation, Public Speech Making, Articles, Concord and
Sentences, Tenses, Gerunds and Participles, Active, Passive and the
Infinitive, Modal Auxiliaries.
EDU 112: Professionalism in Teaching (2 C)
Concepts and issues in teaching, concepts of teaching and
professionalism, history of teaching in Nigeria, professional growth
of teachers, educating the educators, professional studies programs
for teachers, the teacher and the child, why teachers should care, the
making of ideal teacher, qualities of an ideal teacher, the role of the
teacher, the Nigerian Union of Teachers (NUT), the role of Parent
Teachers Association (PTA), the subject teachers association, the
status of teachers in Nigeria, strategies for making teaching a
profession
PED 144: Primary Maths Curriculum and Methods
(2 C)
Basic concept underlying the determination of objectives, the
selection and organisation of learning experiences and evaluation
process, the beginning and nature of merits as distinctive discipline,
assessment of maths attainment, concept, formation and attitudes
transferred from home to the primary schools, individual differences
in pupils maths abilities, the teaching of numbers and fundamental
properties of operations in arithmetic.

-- 117 of 377 --

118
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
EDU 114: History of Education in Nigeria (2 C)
Nigeria traditional education, higher education in traditional society,
Islamic education in Nigeria, in Nigeria, the early missionaries and
the development of education in Nigeria, colonial government
involvement in Nigeria Education 1872 – 1882, Education
Ordinances 1887 – 1916, the impact of Phelps – Stokes Commission
on Education in Northern Nigeria, Secondary Education from 1859 –
1929, Higher Education, The National Curriculum Conference and
the National Policy on Education.
PED 110: Philosophy of Primary Education (2 C)
The concept of education, aims, goals and objectives, meaning, scope
and functions of philosophical foundations of childhood and primary
education, the role expected of the primary school teacher,
characteristics of primary school children, meaning and purpose of
primary education the origin of primary school in Nigeria, a historical
perspective, the basic outlines of the National policy on primary
education, the concept of the UBE contributions of Plato to primary
education. Contributions Jean Jacques, Rousseau, John Amos
Commeruies, John Henrich Petalozzi, Maria Montessori and John
Dewey to primary education, relevance of philosophy of education to
the primary school teacher. Survey of the philosophy of Nigerian
education with emphasis on the National Policy on Primary education
and a study of implementation efforts and problems. The course
should involve practical survey implementation efforts
PED 122: Primary English Curriculum and Methods
(2 C)
This is an introductory course to provide students with basic
knowledge, course to understand the skills as applying in the
principles of educational practice to the teaching of English Language
in primary schools, major aspects examined include why and how of
teaching English language, development in English language
curricula, evaluation techniques and classroom organisation and
management.

-- 118 of 377 --

119
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
PED 112: Reading in Early Childhood and Primary
Education 2C
Fundamentals of reading instruction at the preschool and lower
primary school level, importance of reading in language development
of preschoolers and primary school children, theories underlying the
choice of approaches, methods, techniques and instructional resources
needed to develop the reading and academic skills of preschoolers
and primary level pupils.
PED 150: Primary Science Curriculum and Methods (2 C)
This introductory course aims to provide students with basic
knowledge, understanding the skills in applying the principles of
educational practice to the teaching of the sciences, major aspects to
include why and how of teaching science, developments in science
curricula, evaluation techniques and laboratory organisation and
management.
PED 130: Introduction to Social Studies Education (2C)
Emphasis on the concepts of development, self reliance education, the
philosophy of social studies, civic rights and responsibilities (means
and ends in development)
CIT 102 Software Application Skills (2C)
Brief description of computer system: CPU, I/O devices; Operating
systems; Computer File Management; Computer Software: overview,
types, etc.; Application software: common application software;
Using Microsoft Word; Using Microsoft Excel; Features of Database
Applications and Microsoft Access; Statistical Analysis Applications;
Using SPSS software; Introduction to Desktop Publishing
applications; Computer applications in Nursing; Computer
applications in Agriculture; Managing the computer system with the
Control Panel.
GST 203 Introduction to Philosophy and Logic (2 C)
Definition and Scope of Philosophy, Philosophy as the Parent
Discipline, Branches of Philosophy, Philosophy and Other
Disciplines, Sources of Knowledge and Criteria for Knowing.
Definition and Scope of Logic, Logic’s Vocabulary, Valid, Invalid,

-- 119 of 377 --

120
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Deductive and Inductive Arguments, Language and its Functions.
Fallacies, Definitions, Categorical Propositions, Syllogisms,
Symbolising in Logic, Truth Table Analysis, Logical Proofs of
Validity Using Truth Tables, Rules of Inference and Argument
Forms, Laws of Thought.
GST 201: Nigerian Peoples and Culture (2 C)
The Culture and Peoples of Southern and Northern Nigeria in Pre-
colonial Times, The Dynamics of the Evolution of Nigeria as a
Political Unit, The Culture of the Niger Delta; Rain Forest; Guinea
and the Sudan Savanna Regions of Nigeria, A Historical Analysis of
Education and National Development, Economy and National
Development, Religion and National Development in Nigeria. A
Historical Analysis of Moral and Socio-political Rights of Citizens,
Social Justice and National Development in Nigeria.
EDU 231: Curriculum Development Theory and Practice (2 C)
History of Curriculum Development in Nigeria: The importance of
curriculum, Curriculum Development and/or Improvement in a
developing country like Nigeria, Participants in Curriculum
Planning:- Levels of Planning, Approaches to Planning, Curriculum
Decisions:- Different Stages of Curriculum Decision, The 1969
National Curriculum Conference as a Case Study, Force affecting
Curriculum Decisions, Aims and Objectives of Nigeria Education,
Selection of Learning Experience:- Criteria for Selection, Programme
of Studies, Programme of Activities, Programme of Guidance,
Organisation of Learning Experience:- Traditional Organisation of
Curriculum, New Dimension in Organisation. Evaluation:- Evaluation
of Educational Programmes, Formative Evaluation (Action
Research), Summative Evaluation, Evaluation of the Achievement of
the Individual in the Programme:- Guidance – oriented Evaluation,
Selection – oriented Evaluation
EDU 233: General Teaching Methods (2 C)
The Teacher and the Child, How children learn, Professional attitudes
and understanding of learners, The aims of the Teaching, The Stages
In Lesson Preparation:- The Syllabus, The Scheme of work, Lesson
Notes; Steps in preparation of notes, The problem of time –table.

-- 120 of 377 --

121
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
General Teaching Methods:- Induction Method, Deduction Method,
Induction and Deduction Methods, The Lecture Method, Dramatic
Method, Questioning and Problem Methods, The Project Methods,
Activities in the Lesson, The Art of Classroom Management:-
Qualities of a good teacher, Some common bad habits to avoid,
Dealing with the problem of discipline in class. Questions and
Questioning, Students Natural Curiosity and Enquiry, Aims in
Questing, Questions in Classroom: The teacher’s questions, the
pupil’s questions, Guidelines for questioning. Testing and
Examinations, the purpose of testing, what to test, How and when to
test, Characteristics of a good test, types of tests, marks and
Assignments, Purpose of marking and assignments, Giving and
marking assignments, Awarding and assigning marks and grades,
methods of Study, Use of test book, Art of Note-Making,
Organisation of work, Revision and review of work, Physical
Environment of the classroom, Preparation for examination. Use of
Audio-Visual Aids, Importance of Audio-Visual in Teaching, Types
of Audio-visual Aids and their uses
PED 221: Developmental Psychology (2C)
Basic concepts and nature of developmental psychology:
developmental psychology as a branch of psychology, basic
principles of growth and development in human behaviour, biological
basis of human development, scientific methods in developmental
psychology. Major theories of human development: psychoanalytic,
behaviouristic, psychosocial, cognitive theories. Stages of human
growth and development: prenatal, neonatal, childhood, adolescence
stages
PED 233: Religious and Moral Education (2 C)
This course will discuss relevant concept pertaining to the moral
domain, the philosophical, psychological and pedagogical issues in
the area of moral education and the problems and strategies of
implementation of moral education programmes of primary school.

-- 121 of 377 --

122
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
PED 271: Primary School Physical and Health Education
and Curriculum and Methods (2 C)
The nature and scope of physical and health education, emphasis
should be on academic failure and how achievement problems on
academics, factors responsible for poor academic achievement, study
habits and academic achievement, types and uses of achievement test,
remediation methods, fundamental skills in relation to movement
education organisation of sports and games in primary school with
special reference to common sports in Nigeria, safety maintenance.
PED 261: Primary School Social Studies Curriculum and
Methods (2C)
An examination of the rationale for teaching social science subjects,
appraisal of the contemporary syllabus in social studies, design and
organisation of lesson plans, instructional materials and evaluation
techniques.
ECE 231: Science in the Early Years (2 C)
The study of the history of science: What is Science? The
importance of science, the nature of Science, the history; The
beginnings of Science: Science and Crafts, the beginning of human
history, the beginning of Civilizations, Science in the early Egypt and
Babylonia, the contributions of the early civilizations e.g. tools,
writing, medicine and surgery, Astronomy, Mathematics etc. The
History of Science in the middle Ages: The beginnings of theoretical
science e.g. Physics, Chemistry, Mathematics, Medicine, Astronomy
and Physiology, Biology, etc., the decline of science, Science in the
East (Islamic World (C642 – C1000 AD); Science in Western Europe
(CII – C15 AD): Scientist of the period, Scientific and technological
advancement; Science in the renaissance period (1400 – 1600);
Science in the 17th Century; Science in the 18th Century; Science in
the 19th Century; Science in the 20th Century; Science in the
Millennium

-- 122 of 377 --

123
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
PED 237: Measurements and Shapes (2 C)
Measurement and calculations, standards units of measurement,
significant figures, unit conversions and calculations, definition of
density, basic and derived units, uncertainties in measurement, kind
and properties of lines, angles and triangles, solids or 3-demensional
shapes, plane shapes, perimeters of plane, areas, curved and total,
surface areas, volumes of simple solids.
ECE 221: Language and Literacy in Early Childhood Education
(2C)
Development of language, the process of language acquisition, the
role of language in early years, mother tongue, English language and
bilingualism in early years, behaviourist theory of language
acquisition, Vygotsky’s cultural/cognitive, theory of language
acquisition, maturationist theory of language acquisition, literacy
and pre-reading activities and reading, readiness approaches for
teaching reading, organisation of reading instruction, reading
activities, handwriting, developing writing, language and literacy
across the curriculum.
GST 202: Fundamentals of Peace Studies and Conflict Resolution
(2C)
Basic Understanding of Conflict; Definitions, Causes and Types of
Conflict, Conflict Theories, Phases in Conflict, Conflict Analysis and
Transformation. Dynamics of Conflict; Relationship between
Perception and Conflict, Language Barriers in Conflict and
Resolution, Early Warning and Early Response Mechanism, Arms
Control and Demilitarisation, Peace and Education. Trends in Global
Issues: International, Continental and Regional Organisations in the
Pursuance of World Peace, Peaceful Methods of Conflict Resolution,
Coercive Means of Conflict Resolution, Gender Issues and
Humanitarian Intervention.
EDU 212: Sociology f Education (2 C)
Definition of Sociology, Education and Pedagogy from Sociological
Perspective, Education and Society, Theory of Knowledge, Principles
of the Sociology of Knowledge, Socialization: Culture and
Personality, Education and Social Frame Work:- The Family and

-- 123 of 377 --

124
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Education, Education and Social Stratification – the Nigeria Elites,
Education and Social Values, Moral Education in Changing Society;
Education, Social Justice and the Teacher, Equality in Education,
Freedom in Education. The Social Functions of Education –
Education and Social Change, Education and Social Economic
Development, The Political function of Education, The Sociology of
Teaching:- The Teacher and his Role; The Reluctant Learner, The
Teacher in the Classroom, Social Relations in the School.
EDU 214: Philosophy of Education (2 C)
Explaining concepts of education, (Aims: - goals, objectives, end,
means); Philosophy and philosophers; Curriculum: The nature of
education in Nigeria (metaphysics) – formal and informal education,
auxiliary education, Liberal and vocational education. Knowledge and
education in Nigeria – (Epistemology) Definitions of knowledge,
Types of knowledge; Knowledge by divine revelation, By institution
Prior knowledge, Posteriori knowledge, Need for knowledge in
modern Nigeria morality and education (axiology) Define concepts of
morality and education, Determinants of good education, Logic and
education, Inductive and Deductive methods of teaching; Logic and
curriculum planning, Logic and School Administration; Discipline;
Freedom, Determination and Free will.
EDU 292: Primary Education Methods (2 C)
An overview of the meaning, history and basic principles and
methods in primary education, the relevance and problems of primary
education in Nigeria, assessment of learning approaches as to
subjects, age, and environment of children in primary schools, a
detailed analysis of method of teaching specific primary school
subject, evaluation of programmes and students’ achievement.
PED 230: Introduction to Music in Primary Education (2C)
Music in society: what is music, instruments for making music,
categories of music, traditional African music, music in indigenous
Nigerian festival. Foundation of music: music notation, time names,
tones and semitones. The music scale: use of tonic solfa, music
intervals, elements of music, rhythmic organization melody writing,
harmony.

-- 124 of 377 --

125
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
PED 234: Man, Energy and Resources (2 C)
History of life, the theory of evolution, the nature of earliest
organisms, evidences for the theory of evolution, origin of man,
energy and man, man’s energy needs and sources, energy and
chemical systems, energy conversion, food resources, rubbers and
related products, mineral resources, vegetations and water resources,
conservation of national resources.
PED 236: Elementary Mathematics (2 C)
Number and numeration: basic arithmetic operations in integers;
indices, logarithms and surds; meaning and types of fractions, number
bases; approximations; rate; proportion; and ratio. Algebraic
processes: factorisation and linear equations; quadratic and
simultaneous equations; algebraic graphs; change of subject of
formulae linear inequalities. Geometrical solids and shapes; triangles;
circle; area and volume of various geometrical; solids and shapes
EDU 216: Special Methods II (Micro Teaching & School
Visits) (2C)
The course shall examine the theory and practical aspect of micro
teaching. Specifically, it will expose students to meaning of micro
teaching, teaching skills such as set induction skills, stimulus
variation skills, questioning skills, non-verbal communication skills,
use of instructional material skills and closure skills. Students are
expected to demonstrate each of the skills under supervision of micro
teaching lecturer.
ECE 230: Introduction to Curriculum Development in Early
Childhood Education (2 C)
Curriculum concepts, theoretical foundation of pre-school curriculum,
early childhood development, meeting the needs of the children pre-
school curriculum development models similarities and differences
among pre-school curriculum development models, the role of the
teacher in curriculum development, early childhood curriculum
content and context, evaluation of pre-school curriculum, modes of
pre-school curriculum evaluation, quality indicators.

-- 125 of 377 --

126
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
FRE 152: Introduction to French Culture and Civilisation
(2C)
Historical and Geographical perspective of France, The Renaissance
period, The Revolution of 1789, The Socio-Political Implications of
the Revolution, The Republics, Political live, Imperialism, Industrial
Revolution and Colonisation; French cultural, social political and
economic life in France and how it affects cultural development in
Francophone African countries; Teaching and learning in France,
Religion in France, Festivals in France, Music and Song in France,
Marriage and Family in France, French Economy, Transportation,
Leisure and Tourism, Social Security, Trade Unionism and the
Francophony
GST 301: Entrepreneurship Studies (2C)
Definition of Entrepreneurship, Relationship Between
Entrepreneurship and Small Business Management, Factors of
Entrepreneurship; Dealing with External Factors of Entrepreneurship;
Factors of Production; Profit and Other Objectives of an
Entrepreneur, the Business Environment, Understanding Viability
Study; Needs and Characteristics of Consumers; Mission and
Enterprise Objectives; Export Market Shares; Target Market; Income
Determination; Break-even Point, Size of the Business, Location
Factors; Financial Requirements Forms of Ownership; Business Plan.
Risk Analysis; Legal Requirements; Staffing, Purchasing; Production;
Management.
EDU 321: Psychology of Learning (2 C)
Definitions of psychology & learning; Theories of learning and the
theorists levels of motivation and implication for education; Memory
and forgetting, Types of memory, Method of improving memory,
Types of forgetting, Factors influencing forgetting, Implication for
education; Cognitive theory of learning; Reinforcement and
punishment and classroom application; Behaviourism, Contributions
of behavioral psychologists and classroom application; Transfer of
learning and classroom application, S – R theory of Thorndike –
skinner, Meaning of S – R, The Laws of readiness, Exercise and
effect; Punishment; Classroom application

-- 126 of 377 --

127
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
EDU 323: Basic Research Methods and Statistics in Education
(3C)
Meaning of Research; Scientific method of research, Selection of the
topic, Subjects etc for research; Purposes of research studies;
Guidelines in selection of topics, Preparing a research proposal,
Statement of the problem; Determination of data required;
Hypothetical conclusions and implication, Collecting information and
data; Observation and interview methods, Basic consideration in data
collection; The correspondence method; Analysis and interpretation
of Data; Basic statistical concept and Their Computation, Designs of
Experiments:- Basic types of errors; Simple Randomised Design,
Random – Replications Design; Groups- within – Treatment design;
Treatment of extra venous variables, Scaling Problems and
Techniques:- Rating Scales, Rank-order Scales, etc, Determination of
Scale Value
EDU 335: Teaching Practice I (3 C)
Students learn through practical experience how to teach particular
subjects, manage a classroom and the functions of a good teacher.
ECE 313: Theories and Practice of Early Childhood
Education (2C)
The historical and philosophical bases of early childhood education,
the nature and contexts of child development, surveys theories about
children’s growth and development from birth through eight years of
age, stages of cognitive development, physical, social, emotional and
moral development, language development, causes and characteristics
of developmental anomalies. Contemporary early childhood models –
Maria Montessori, Reggio Emilia models.

-- 127 of 377 --

128
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
PED 351: Adult Basic Education 2C
Meaning / concept of education; brief history of education in Nigeria;
formal education; informal education; importance of education;
difference between education and literacy; meaning / concept of
adulthood/adult education; the national policy on adult education;
characteristics of adult basic education; characteristics of adult
learner; goals of adult basic education; history of adult education in
Nigeria; rationale for adult education in the Nigerian teacher
education programme; types of adult education; methods of teaching
in adult education programmes; innovations in adult education
programs in Nigeria; problems of adult education in Nigeria;
strategies applied to promote adult education, literacy and non-formal
education in Nigeria
PED 313: Historical and Cultural Background of Immediate
Environment (2 C)
Overview of cultural differences in child-rearing practices,
communication patterns and experiences of families, children and
their views of self and others in the Family, school and community,
support networks in the community.
ECE 311: Introduction to Cultural and Creative Arts
(2C)
Families and communities, child rearing practices and communication
patterns in the family, cultural differences, family and community
arts-carving, basketing, leatherwork. graphic and textile, drama,
festivals and ceremonies, drawing of simple objects using pencil, pen,
ink, charcoal, graphite, pastel, etc. Colour mixture with emphasis on
tonal values, monochromatic raising, specific polychromatic pasting
of objects with particular reference to shapes, forms and tones,
objectives, principles and aims of teaching creative arts, roles of
creative arts in classroom and to students, how to teach creative arts
to pupils.
EDU 332: Introduction to Educational Technology (2C)
Definition of Instructional Technology, its Philosophy, Terminology,
Roles of Instructional Technology in the Learning Process, The
experience, Theory of Learning, learning and Communication in the

-- 128 of 377 --

129
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
classroom, Learning has changed behaviour, The teacher’s
responsibilities, Selecting and using materials and media in
Instruction, Visual aids, Non-projected aids, Projectors, Projected
aids, Audio-visual aids, Creating Instructional Materials, Duplicators,
Equipment Operation, projection, Recording.
EDU 314: Comparative Education (2 C)
Scope and meaning of education, examination of significant
differences and similarities in education policy and practices in
selected societies, problems of educational development in
developing countries.
PED 322: Methods of Teaching Reading in Primary School (2C)
Nature of reading, reading readiness, reading approaches, methods,
strategies and types of reading: Language skills and their
interrelatedness; the nature of reading and important reading
experiences in the primary school; reading readiness skills;
approaches, methods and strategies of teaching reading I (phonics,
structural, look and say, word form clues, picture clues and context
clues); approaches, methods and strategies of teaching reading II:
language experience, whole language, literature based, oral, silent and
individualised); types of reading: oral and silent, skimming and
scanning, intensive and extensive). Development of reading skills:
goals and objectives of teaching reading; development of word
recognition skills; development of interpretative skills; development
of skills for reading in content areas; resources for teaching reading
evaluation of reading skills
PED 320: Family Education (2 C)
Concept of family education: Types of families and the effects on
children’s care and education; Roles of parents, teachers and the
children in the family; Physical and health development in the family;
Types of education available for the family; Traditional family
education – what was – what is – and what next; Education resources
in the family, e.g. books, TV, Computer, etc; Financial resources and
management in the family; Communication and the family; Decision
making and the family; Family friendly food and recipe; Family fun
and entertainments; Children’s play and the family .

-- 129 of 377 --

130
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
PED 312: Fundamentals of Early Childhood and Primary
Education (2C)
Meaning, philosophy, purpose and history of early childhood and
primary education; great philosophers/educators contributions to early
childhood and primary education; research methods in early
childhood and primary education; understanding growth and
development of early childhood and primary education by teachers
and caregivers; major theories of early childhood and middle
childhood; implications of the theories for learning and teaching
preschoolers and primary school pupils; early childhood and primary
education curriculum delivery; teaching methods in early childhood
and primary education; teaching and learning resources early
childhood and primary education; early childhood
programmes/centres and primary education; minimum standards for
establishment; challenges of early childhood and primary education.
PED 342: Methods of Teaching Creative Arts in Early Childhood
and Primary Education (2C)
Art methodology, methods of teaching arts, creative art curriculum
for early childhood and primary education classroom, visual arts in
early childhood and primary education, qualities of a good creative art
teacher, fine art, applied art, creative art material and improvisation,
basic scheme of work on creative arts for young artist, arts
appreciation, young artists and creativity, art terminologies for better
understanding of creative art, factors affecting the teaching of creative
art in early childhood and primary education, structure of a successful
work of art.
EDU 336: Post Teaching Practice Evaluation/ Remediation ( 2C)
Students are required to write comprehensive report of their
experiences in practical implementation of teaching/learning
strategies in the classroom as applied to the subject area. The report
should include
1. Challenges encountered during the teaching practice.
2. The lesson notes used during the teaching practice.
3. Assessment questions as well as the marking guides used.

-- 130 of 377 --

131
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
4. Assessment of teaching practice supervision by the supervisor,
and
5. Suggestions for improvement.
The report should be submitted by the students to Dean through the
Study Centre Director for:
a. Evaluation;
b. Feedback; and
c. Remediation
The result of the overall process should be communicated to the
students from the Dean through the Study Centre Director.
EDU 302: ICT in Education (2C)
ICT in Education Teachers’ Professional Development Toolkit,
Course Introduction, Understanding ICT in Education: Advancing
Policy through Classroom Action and the use of Technology,
Modification of Lesson Plans to Support Policy, Internet Navigation,
Modification of Lesson Plans to Support Policy, National ICT Policy
and its Impact on Education, Report on Policy Impact. Curriculum &
Assessment: Curriculum Standards, Internet Search Engines –
Advanced Searching, School Records, Classroom Records. Pedagogy:
Integrating ICT to Support Didactic Teaching Methodologies,
PowerPoint for Pedagogues, Strategies for Integrating ICT into
Learning, Graphic Tools to Enhance Teaching and Learning.
Organisation and Administration: Learning Activities for a Computer
Laboratory Environment, Management of the Use of ICT in
a Classroom Environment. Teacher Professional Development:
Teacher Productivity Strategies, Use of ICT to Support Lifelong
Learning, Safety Issues in Digital Environments.
ECE 222: Developing Professional Skills and Competence
(2C)
Teaching as a profession. Meaning and characteristics of a profession,
the challenge of the teacher’s work from the Christian Missionary Era
to the Era of Universalisation of access to education. The Teachers
Registration Council. National Policy on Teacher Education in

-- 131 of 377 --

132
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Nigeria. The Goals of Teacher Education in Nigeria. Qualities of a
good teacher. Behavioural job expectations for teachers. Learner
characteristics and teacher interaction. The teaching – learning
process. Planning to teach. Keeping up to date in teaching. The place
of teachers in the society.
EDU 421: Fundamentals of Guidance and Counselling (2 C)
Meaning, Purpose and Development of Guidance and Counselling,
The services of a School Guidance programme; - The individual
appraisal service. Information needed for the analysis of the
individual, collection of information (test, inventories etc).
Organising recording and filing information; Use of recorded
information; Information service:- Vocational Education and Personal
Social Information, Methods of obtaining and Disseminating
information; The Counselling Service:- Nature, Purpose and Theories
of Counselling; The Counsellor and the counseling process, The
Placement Service in School and out-of School placement, follow up
studies; Purposes of and procedures in follow-up studies, Problems in
Guidance and counseling:- Values and attitude orientation, Guidance
as Classroom or Specialist Centered, Guidance as Direction or
Developments, Problems of Social change, Relation with other
Personnel and Services:-Counsellor and School Administration,
Relationship with teachers, Extra – School Relationship, Working
with Parents and Making Referential, Guidance:- Organisation and
Implementation, Preparation of Occupational, Information,
Practicum; Preparing and using Cumulative records.
EDU 423: Measurement and Evaluation (2 C)
Definition and purpose of Measurement and Evaluation, Importance
of Tests in Education; Validity of Tests in Educational Achievement;
Functions of classroom tests, Criteria for effective testing, Problems
of tests construction; Measurement of educational outcomes,
Behavioral cognitive and non-cognitive of education, Pupils
characteristics to be measured, Types of tests, Essay and objective
type tests advantages and disadvantages of each, when to use each of
them. Tests Administration and Scoring, Judging the Quality of a
Classroom test, Estimating, Interpreting and improving reliability of

-- 132 of 377 --

133
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
test, Validity of Classroom Tests, Problem of Marking Tests, and
Quality Control in Marking System.
EDU 435: Teaching Practice II (3 C)
A minimum of six weeks supervised exposure to classroom teaching
on field experience to demonstrate the degree of proficiency in
applying some of the basic theories of instruction.
PED 431: Continuous Assessment in Primary School (2C)
Emphasis on the nature and role of continuous assessment in
diagnostic and prescriptive management in teaching and learning,
cumulative record keeping and rudiments of achievement test
construction, continuous assessment record keeping using
achievement test scores (emphasizing statistical techniques such as
the measurement of central tendencies and dispersion, transformation
of scores, weighting of scores) for obtaining students academic
profile.
PED 433: Children’s Literature (2 C)
Young children’s literacy development strategies children use to
become readers and writers, recording and reporting children’s
literacy development, models of literacy instruction, young children
prose and poem, writers of children books.
PED 421: Developmental Guidance in Primary Education. (2 C)
What is developmental guidance (areas of educational, personal and
vocational development)? Who are guidance Counsellors? What are
the functions of a guidance Counsellor? What are the educational
guidance needs of children in the primary school? What are the
personal guidance needs of a primary school child? What are the
social guidance needs of a primary school child? What are the
emotional guidance needs of a primary school child? Guidance
services in primary schools: Collaborative guidance services in
primary schools (parents, teachers, counsellors, etc)
ECE 421: Health and Family Life Education (2 C)
The importance of good family living. The variables involved in
marriage and divorce such as dating, going steady, pregnancy and

-- 133 of 377 --

134
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
child rearing practices are examined with the educational
implications. Improvement of personal health knowledge. Provides
motivation for self direction in personal health related issues.
PED 423: Seminar in Primary Education (2C)
Active participation of students in seminar presentation in primary
education topics such as: the concept of primary education, the nature
and concept of the psychology of child development, meaning and
forms of education, the role expectation of primary school teacher,
the rights of children, the acquisition of attitudes and skills, the
development of primary education in Nigeria, kinds of learning,
principles of learning and instruction, methods of teaching in primary
school, analysis of problems and issues related to teacher
effectiveness in teaching, amongst others. The topics will be given
out to students for presentation at the study centres under the
supervision of the instructional facilitators.
EDU 412: Educational Management (2 C)
Define educational administration, Educational law and the control of
Education in Nigeria, The organisation of the Ministry of Education
and the function of boards of education, the Nigerian Educational
system, the school and the community, Bureaucracy and decision
making in educational administration, human relations in Educational
administration, Educational Leadership, the role of the principal, staff
personnel administration, supervision of instruction, Admission
Procedures, Student’s records and reports, Student’s discipline and
welfare, Student organisation and participation in School
Administration, Principle of planning, School finance and accounting
system, School routine and time table, The school plant and facilities,
Examinations and the problems of academic standards, Evaluation
and school inspection.
EDU 420: Research Project (4 C)
An application of the research methods and data processing course to
a field experience under the guidance of a selected facilitator.

-- 134 of 377 --

135
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
EDU 426: Special Education (2 C)
Concept of special education, its definition and origins. Examination
of the terms integration, inclusion, and individualised education
programme within the context of special education. Giftedness, its
meaning, and causes as well as case studies of the gifted. The
education of gifted children. Hearing impairment and educational
considerations for the deaf. Visual impairment, its causes and history.
Educational considerations for visually impaired children.
PED 412: Organisation and Administrative of Primary School
(2C)
The detailed procedure in the organisation of school, the planning and
financing, the role of Government agents at different levels of
Governments – Local, State and Federal, a continuous analysis of the
organisation of the UBE and related reports etc.
PED 420: Social Psychology of Instruction (2 C)
Central concepts; Theories and problems areas in social psychology;
The relationships between social psychology and instruction;
Interaction and organisational processes in primary schools; Ways in
which identity and relationships are formed in society with a focus on
analysing some key problem areas, such as – communication,
emotions, gender and ethnicity issues; Research processes in social
psychology.
PED 422: Behavioural Problems and the Primary School Child (2
C)
Conceptual clarification; Psychological theories and problem
behavior; Maladjustments; Disruptive behaviors; Problem behavior
and the teacher; Promotion of emotional stability and maturity in
pupils by the school; Therapeutic management of disruptive
behaviors; Management of the deviant or delinquent child; Discipline
in primary school. Mental health of the classroom teacher and his/her
pupils; Personal and professional challenges of the classroom requires
a well – adjusted, stable teacher.

-- 135 of 377 --

136
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
PED 410: Management of Childhood Institutions (2C)
Introduction and basic concepts of management of childhood
institutions: management of childhood/primary education, the concept
and types of organisation, theories of organisation, the childhood
institutions as a social organisation. Power, authority and leadership
in primary education: bases of leader power, authority, leadership,
role of primary school system as an organisation, discipline and
punishment in childhood schools. Motivation, communication and
other issues in childhood institutions and management, motivation,
communication in childhood institution, establishment of childhood
institutions & management, management laws in childhood
institutions
ECE 410: Issues in Early Childhood and Primary Education
(2C)
Discussion of current issues in the operation of early childhood
institutions, issues of regulations, the language of instruction,
problems.
PED 430: Design and Production of Learning Materials for
Primary School (2C)
The need for learning Materials in Primary School as Primary
Education within the context of the National Policy of Education, the
Characteristics of Primary School Children, The Primary School
Curriculum, Teaching and Learning, Primary School Children
Learning Styles, Design of Instructional Materials, Designing
Instructional materials, Producing Instructional Materials, Theories
Relevant to the Design and Production of Learning Materials.,
Development and Production of Learning Materials, Analysis Phase,
Design Phase of Learning Materials Evaluation Phase – Evaluating
Learning Materials, The Learning Package, Application of Learning
Materials in the Classroom Plan, Prepare, and use Learning Materials,
Effective use of the Environment.
Outline of Course Structure
The B A. Ed. (Hons) Early Childhood Education is structured to run
for a minimum of five years and maximum of eight years for students

-- 136 of 377 --

137
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
starting at 100 level or minimum of four years and maximum of six
years for students at 200 level.
Degree Rules
To be eligible for the award of the B.A. Ed. Hons. in Early Childhood
Education, a student must have passed a minimum of 120 and 90
credit units for the 4 year- and 3 year- degree programme
respectively.
Table 7: Summary of Distribution of Course Credits by Level
Leve
l
GST
and
other
Gener
al
Course
s
Education Subject/Specialisati
on Area
Tota
l
Compulso
ry
Electiv
e
Compulso
ry
Electiv
e
100 8 6 - 22 4 40
200 6 10 - 18 4 38
300 2 18 - 14 8 42
400 - 15 - 18 6 39
Tota
l
16 49 - 72 22 159
Table 8: B.A (Ed) Early Childhood Education
4208
(a)100 Level First Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit(s)
Status
GST
101
Use of English And
Communication Skills I
2 C
GST
105
History and Philosophy of Science 2 C
GST
107
The Good Study Guide 2 C
EDU
111
Introduction to Foundations of
Education
2 C

-- 137 of 377 --

138
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
ECE
121
Child Development 2 C
ECE
113
Introduction to Philosophy of Early
Childhood Education
2 C
ECE
123
Health Care in the Early Years 2 C
MAT
102
Introduction to Statistics in
Education
2 C
PED
122
Primary English Curriculum and
Methods
2 C
PED
144
Primary Mathematics Curriculum
Methods
2 C
Total Credit Units – Compulsory 20
(b)100 Level Second Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit(s)
Status
GST
102
Use Of English and Communication
Skills II
2 C
ECE
110
Childhood Education in Traditional
African Society
2 C
ECE
112
Origin and Development of E.C.E 2 C
ENG
151
Introduction to English as a Second
Language
2 C
PED
112
Reading in Early Childhood and
Primary Education
2 C
EDU
112
Professionalism in Teaching 2 C
EDU
114
History of Education in Nigeria 2 C
CIT
102
Software Application Skills 2 C
Total Credit Units – Compulsory 16
* Note: Students are to offer a minimum of one elective course
of two credit units at the end of the session.
* Each student would offer a maximum of 40 credit units.

-- 138 of 377 --

139
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
(c )200 Level First Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit(s)
Status
GST
201
Computers in Society 2 C
GST
203
Introduction to Philosophy and Logic 2 C
EDU
231
Curriculum Development Theory
and Practice
2 C
EDU
233
General Teaching Methods 2 C
ECE
223
Plays and Learning 2 C
ECE
221
Language and Literacy in the Early
Years
2 C
ECE
227
Organisation and Service Provision
in E.C.E
2 C
ECE
225
Meeting Special Needs in E.C.E 2 C
ECE
231
Science in the Early Years 2 C
PED
236
Elementary Mathematics 2 C
Total Credit Units – Compulsory 20
* At the end of the semester, Direct Entry students must offer GST
101, GST 105, GST 107.
( d ) 200 Level Second Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit
Status
GST
202
Fundamentals of Peace Studies and
Conflict Resolutions
2 C
EDU
212
Sociology of Education 2 C
EDU
214
Philosophy of Education 2 C
ECE
230
Introduction to Early Childhood
Education Curriculum Development
2 C

-- 139 of 377 --

140
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
ECE
232
Observation, Recording and
Assessment in Early Childhood
Education
2 C
EDU
216
Special Method II (Micro Teaching) 2 C
EDU
290
Early Childhood Education Methods 2 C
Total Credit Units – Compulsory 14
* Note :Students are to offer a minimum of one elective course
of two credit units at the end of the session.
* Each student would offer a maximum of 36 credit units.
* At the end of the semester, Direct Entry students must offer
GST 102.
( e ) 300 Level First Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit
Status
GST
301
Entrepreneurship Studies 2 C
EDU
321
Psychology of Learning 2 C
EDU
323
Basic Research Methods in
Education
3 C
EDU
335
Teaching Practice I 3 C
ECE313 Theories and Practice of Early
Childhood Education
2 C
PED
313
Historical and Cultural Background
of Immediate Environment
2 C
ENT
323
Entrepreneurial Development and
Small Business Management
2 C
Total Credit Units – Compulsory 16
* At the end of the semester, Direct Entry students must offer GST
203.
(f )300 Level Second Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit
Status
EDU Educational Technology 2 C

-- 140 of 377 --

141
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
332
EDU
302
ICT in Education 2 C
EDU
314
Comparative Education 2 C
EDU212 Language and Literacy in the Early
Years
2 C
PED234 Man Energy and Resources 2 C
PED
237
Measurement and Shapes 2 C
EDU336 Post Teaching Practice Experience /
Remediation
2 C
PED
322
Methods of Teaching Reading in
Primary School
2 C
PED
271
Primary School Phe Curriculum and
Methods
2 C
PED
342
Methods of Teaching Creative Arts
in Early Childhood and Primary
Education
2 C
PED
352
Adult Basic Education 2 C
Total Credit Units – Compulsory 22
* Note : Students are to offer a minimum of one elective course
of two credit units at the end of the session.
* Each student would offer a maximum of 37 credit units.
* At the end of the semester, Direct Entry students must offer
GST 202.
( g )400 Level First Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit(s)
Status
EDU
421
Fundamentals Of Guidance And
Counselling
2 C
EDU
423
Measurement and Evaluation 2 C
EDU
435
Teaching Practice II 3 C
ECE
421
Health and Family Life Education 2 C

-- 141 of 377 --

142
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
ECE
413
Comparative Early Childhood
Education
2 C
PED
421
Developmental Guidance in Primary
Education
2 C
PED
433
Children Literature 2 C
PED
431
Continuous Assessment in Primary
Education
2 C
Total Credit Units – Compulsory 17
( h )400 Level Second Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit(s)
Status
EDU
420
Research Project 4 C
EDU
412
Principles of Educational
Management
2 C
EDU
426
Special Education 2 C
ECE
422
The School Environment and the
Child
2 C
ECE
420
Seminar in Early Childhood
Education
2 C
ECE
410
Issues in Early Childhood and
Primary Education
2 C
ECE
412
Management of Early Childhood
Education
2 C
PED
420
Social Psychology of Instruction 2 C
PED
430
Design and Production of Learning
Materials for Primary School
2 C
Total Credit Units – Compulsory 20
* Note: Students are to offer a minimum of one elective course
of two credit units at the end of the session.
* Each student would offer a maximum of 37 credit units.

-- 142 of 377 --

143
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Course Content Specification
GST 101: Use of English and Communication Skills I (2
Credit Units C)
Listening enabling skills, listening and comprehending
comprehension, note taking and information retrieval. Including data,
figures, diagrams and charts. Listening for main idea, interpretation
and critical evaluation. Effective reading. skimming and scanning.
Reading and comprehension at various speed levels. Vocabulary
development in various academic contexts. Reading diverse texts in
narratives and expository. Reading and comprehension passages with
tables, scientific texts. Reading for interpretation and critical
evaluation.
GST 102: Use of English and Communication Skills II (2
C)
Writing paragraphs: Topic sentence and coherence. Development of
paragraphs: illustration, Description, cause and effect including
definitions. Formal letters; essential parts and stylistic forms,
complaints and requests; jobs, ordering goods, letters to government
and other organisations. Writing reports; reporting event,
experiments. Writing summaries: techniques of summarising letters
and sounds in English, vowels and consonants. Interviews, seminar
presentation, public speech making, articles, concord and sentences
including tenses. Gerund, participles, active, passive and the
infinitive. Modal auxiliaries.
GST 105: History and Philosophy of Science (2 C)
Nature of science, scientific methods and theories, law of nature,
history of science, lost sciences of African, science, technology and
inventions, nature and scope of philosophy in science, man, nature
and his origin, man, environment and resources, Great Nigerian
Scientists.
GST 107: The Good Study Guide (2 C)
Getting Started:- How to use the book, why read about study skills,
getting yourself organized, what is studying all about, reading and
note-taking: Introduction, reactions to reading, your reading strategy,

-- 143 of 377 --

144
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
memory, taking notes, conclusion. Other ways of studying:-
Introduction, learning in groups, talks and lectures, learning from
T.V and Radio broadcasts, other study media. Working with numbers:
Getting to know numbers, describing the world, describing the tables,
describing with diagrams and graphs, what is good writing? The
importance of writing, what does an essay look like, what is a good
essay? Conclusion. How to write essays: Introduction, the craft of
writing, the advantages of treating essay writing as a craft, making
your essay flow, making a convincing case, the experience of writing.
Preparing for examination.
GST 202: Fundamentals of Peace Studies & Conflict
Resolution
Basic Understanding of Conflict; Definitions, Causes and Types of
Conflict, Conflict Theories, Phases in Conflict, Conflict Analysis &
Transformation. Dynamics of Conflict; Relationship between
Perception and Conflict, Language Barriers in Conflict and
Resolution, Early Warning and Early Response Mechanism, Arms
Control and Demilitarisation, Peace and Education. Trends in Global
Issues: International, Continental and Regional Organisations in the
Pursuance of World Peace, Peaceful Methods of Conflict Resolution,
Coercive Means of Conflict Resolution, Gender Issues and
Humanitarian Intervention.
GST 203: Introduction to Philosophy and Logic
Definition and Scope of Philosophy, Philosophy as the Parent
Discipline, Branches of Philosophy, Philosophy and Other
Disciplines, Sources of Knowledge and Criteria for Knowing.
Definition and Scope of Logic, Logic’s Vocabulary, Valid, Invalid,
Deductive and Inductive Arguments, Language and its Functions.
Fallacies, Definitions, Categorical Propositions, Syllogisms,
Symbolising in Logic, Truth Table Analysis, Logical Proofs of
Validity Using Truth Tables, Rules of Inference and Argument
Forms, Laws of Thought.

-- 144 of 377 --

145
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
GST 301: Entrepreneurship Studies
Definition of Entrepreneurship, Relationship Between
Entrepreneurship and Small Business Management, Factors of
Entrepreneurship; Dealing with External Factors of Entrepreneurship;
Factors of Production; Profit and Other Objectives of an
Entrepreneur, the Business Environment, Understanding Viability
Study; Needs and Characteristics of Consumers; Mission and
Enterprise Objectives; Export Market Shares; Target Market; Income
Determination; Break-even Point, Size of the Business, Location
Factors; Financial Requirements Forms of Ownership; Business Plan.
Risk Analysis; Legal Requirements; Staffing, Purchasing; Production;
Management.
CIT 101: Computers in Society
What is Computer, Elements of a Computer: Hardware and Software,
How to Work with a Computer, Operating Systems, and Files. Word
Processing: Introduction to Word Processing, Word Processing
Program Facilities, Copying text, Saving Changes, and Formatting.
Spreadsheet: Entering and Correcting Data, Using Formula, Numeric
Formats, Creating Charts, Charts from Non-adjacent Data, Embedded
Charts, Charts Links and Chart Types. PowerPoint and Presentations:
Presentation Screen, Creating New Presentations, Naming
Presentations, Saving Presentations and Formatting Slides, Using
Auto-shapes. Networking, Internet and Electronic mail.
COP 112: Introduction to General Agriculture 11 (2 C)
To enable learners understand the impact of agriculture on the socio-
economic development of Nigeria. Concept of agriculture concept of
land tenure system and factors affecting land use in Nigeria, types of
farming and their characteristics in Nigeria, cropping systems,
problems of agriculture, development and modernisation in
agriculture, importance of agriculture to the Nigerian economy,
methods and strategies in agricultural extension, economic
importance of livestock and poultry to man, management principles
of some selected farm animals, agricultural finance, credit and
marketing, simple farm tools and machinery, types of soils and plants,
agricultural finance, credit and marketing, simple farm tools and
machinery, types of soil and plants, agricultural biology and its scope.

-- 145 of 377 --

146
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Scope of horticulture, methods of propagating horticultural plants,
agricultural cooperatives, types and application of fertiliser.
COP 111: Introduction to General Agriculture I (2 C)
The objective of this course is to be able to define agriculture and its
branches, explain the importance of agriculture in terms of its
contributions to the socio-economic development of the country,
explain types of land tenure and factors affecting them in Nigeria,
describe traditional farming types in Nigeria and compare with
modern farming, explain the merits and demerits of each of the
farming system, describe the importance of research in modern
agricultural development, proffer solutions to these problems, explain
the importance of extension services in agriculture, the various types
of soils and crops and advise on the type of soil suitable for crops.
CIT 102: Software Application Skills (2C)
Brief description of computer system: CPU, I/O devices; Operating
systems; Computer File Management; Computer Software: overview,
types, etc.; Application software: common application software;
Using Microsoft Word; Using Microsoft Excel; Features of Database
Applications and Microsoft Access; Statistical Analysis Applications;
Using SPSS software; Introduction to Desktop Publishing
applications; Computer applications in Nursing; Computer
applications in Agriculture; Managing the computer system with the
Control Panel.
PED 234: Man, Energy and Resources (2 C)
History of life, the theory of evolution, the nature of earliest
organisms, evidences for the theory of evolution, origin of man,
energy and man, man’s energy needs and sources, energy and
chemical systems, energy conversion, food resources, rubbers and
related products, mineral resources, vegetations and water resources,
conservation of national resources.
EDU 111: Introduction to Foundations of Education (2C)
Philosophical and psychological perspective, philosophy of
education, meaning and relevance, equality of educational
opportunity, psychology of education, introduction to learning

-- 146 of 377 --

147
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
theories, readiness to learning, motivation and its relation to learning,
transfer of learning, historical and sociological perspective, concept
and nature of education, types of education, the growth of education
in Nigeria, educational trends in Nigeria, innovations in education,
the status of teachers in Nigeria, education and society, social class
and educational opportunity, factors that influence education.
EDU 112: Professionalism in Teaching (2 C)
Concepts and issues in teaching, concepts of teaching and
professionalism, history of teaching in Nigeria, professional growth
of teachers, educating the educators, professional studies programs
for teachers, the teacher and the child, why teachers should care, the
making of ideal teacher, qualities of an ideal teacher, the role of the
teacher, the Nigerian Union of Teachers (NUT), the role of Parent
Teachers Association (PTA), the subject teacher association, the
status of teacher in Nigeria, strategies for making teaching a
profession
EDU 114: History of Education in Nigeria (2 C)
Nigeria traditional education, higher education in traditional society,
Islamic education in Nigeria, advent of western education in Nigeria,
The early missionaries and the development of education in Nigeria,
colonial government involvement in Nigeria education 1872 – 1882,
education ordinances 1887 – 1916, the impact of Phelps – Stokes
Commission on Education in Northern Nigeria, Secondary Education
from 1859 – 1929, Higher Education, the National Curriculum
Conference and the National Policy on Education.
ECE 120: Development of Appropriate Skills in Children (2C)
Cognition, Piaget’s stages of cognitive development. Sensory –
perceptual capability and response, perceptual and intellectual
development. The process of language acquisition. Language skills.
Role of language in early years. Social and emotional development
and skills. Reading skills, writing skills. Listening enabling skills,
skills for studying, how to study. Forming emotional bonds.
Assimilation and Accommodation. Conservation Skills. Kohlberg’s
stages of moral development.

-- 147 of 377 --

148
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
ECE 121: Child Development (2 C)
A broad introduction to nature and concept of the psychology of child
development from conception through the prenatal years to the
childhood and adolescent stages. The pre-school years, the school
years.
ECE 123: Health Care in Early Years (2 C)
Health: Definition, General Characteristics of children in the early
years; Word Declaration on the Rights of the child as affecting their
survival, health, protection and care. Maternal wellbeing as a factor of
children’s health care; Poverty; traditional health care practices;
Community health issues; HIV/AIDS; Personal health; Indigenous
child rearing practices supporting health care for children; Nutrition,
Micronutrients and Micronutrients, Deficiencies. – Childhood
diseases: polio, malaria, meningitis, yellow fever, diarrhea , tetanus,
etc; child abuse and intervention measures. Health – care monitoring
and assessment instruments; Care; management of childhood disease;
protection issues; immunisation against childhood killer diseases.
Health care intervention by international donor agencies, e.g. World
Health Organisation (WHO), UNICEF, USAID, CARE, etc.
ECE 110: Childhood Education in Traditional African Society
(2 C)
The meaning and forms of education, characteristics and goals of
traditional African education, the African family system, marriage,
child bearing and care, breast feeding and weaning in traditional
African society, toilet training of children in traditional African
society, the role of parents in the up-bringing of children in African
society, the acquisition of attitudes and Skills, language development,
social and emotional development, moral development, the
techniques of traditional African education, problems of traditional
African education into the formal school system, integration of
traditional African education.
ECE 113: Intro to Philosophy of Early Childhood Education
(2 C)
Meaning and definition of philosophy, philosophy of early childhood,
pre-primary education, concept and types of early childhood

-- 148 of 377 --

149
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
education, the role expectation of the pre-primary school teacher,
implication for effective teaching, characteristics of preparing school
children and their implication to teaching, historical perspectives and
challenges, purposes and needs of pre-primary education, problems
perspectives and challenges of pre-primary education in Nigeria – A
way forward, the prospects of pre-primary education in Nigeria,
Plato (427-348 BC) and Aristotle (384-372 BC) Jean Jacques
Rousseau (1712-1778), John Amos Commenius (1592-1670), John
Heinrich Pestalozzi (1746-1827), Montessori (1870-1952), Frederich
W. Froebel (1782-1852) and John Dewey (1959-1962).
ECE 112: Origin and Development of Early Childhood Education
(2 C)
The concept of early childhood education, the nature and needs of
children, historical views of children, the contributions of individuals
to the improved status of children, the rights of children, origin and
development of early childhood education, the origin of Western
Education in Nigeria, the UBE programme in Nigeria, the
development of pre-school education in Nigeria, Early Child Care and
Development Initiative in Nigeria. Universal Basic Education and
Early Childhood Education. Major constraints in the UBE. Problems
of pre-primary Education in Nigeria. How to start a pre-primary
school.
GST 202: Philosophy and Logic (2 C)
Fundamentals of logic and critical thinking; types of discourse; nature
of arguments; validity and soundness; techniques for evaluating
arguments; distinction between inductive and deductive inferences;
etc. Illustrations from familiar texts, including literature materials,
novels, law reports and newspaper publications.
EDU 231: Curriculum Theory and Practice (2C)
History of Curriculum Development in Nigeria: The importance of
curriculum, Curriculum Development and/or Improvement in a
developing country like Nigeria, Participants in Curriculum
Planning:- Levels of Planning, Approaches to Planning, Curriculum
Decisions:- Different Stages of Curriculum Decision, The 1969
National Curriculum Conference as a Case Study, Force affecting

-- 149 of 377 --

150
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Curriculum Decisions, Aims and Objectives of Nigeria Education,
Selection of Learning Experience:- Criteria for Selection, Programme
of Studies, Programme of Activities, Programme of Guidance,
Organisation of Learning Experience:- Traditional Organisation of
Curriculum, New Dimension in Organisation. Evaluation:- Evaluation
of Educational Programmes, Formative Evaluation (Action
Research), Summative Evaluation, Evaluation of the Achievement of
the Individual in the Programme:- Guidance – oriented Evaluation,
Selection – oriented Evaluation.
EDU 212: Sociology of Education (2 C)
Definition of Sociology, Education and Pedagogy from Sociological
Perspective, Education and Society, Theory of Knowledge, Principles
of the Sociology of Knowledge, Socialization:- Culture and
Personality, Education and Social Frame Work:- The Family and
Education, Education and Social Stratification – the Nigeria Elites,
Education and Social Values, Moral Education in Changing Society;
Education, Social Justice and the Teacher, Equality in Education,
Freedom in Education. The Social Functions of Education –
Education and Social Change, Education and Social Economic
Development, The Political function of Education, The Sociology of
Teaching:- The Teacher and his Role; The Reluctant Learner, The
Teacher in the Classroom, Social Relations in the School.
EDU 233: General Teaching Methods (2 C)
The Teacher and the Child, How children learn, Professional attitudes
and understanding of learners, The aims of the Teaching, The Stages
In Lesson Preparation:- The Syllabus, The Scheme of work, Lesson
Notes; Steps in preparation of notes, The problem of time –table.
General Teaching Methods:- Induction Method, Deduction Method,
Induction and Deduction Methods, The Lecture Method, Dramatic
Method, Questioning and Problem Methods, The Project Methods,
Activities in the Lesson, The Art of Classroom Management:-
Qualities of a good teacher, Some common bad habits to avoid,
Dealing with the problem of discipline in class. Questions and
Questioning, Students Natural Curiosity and Enquiry, Aims in
Questing, Questions in Classroom: The teacher’s questions, the
pupil’s questions, Guidelines for questioning. Testing and

-- 150 of 377 --

151
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Examinations, the purpose of testing, what to test, How and when to
test, Characteristics of a good test, types of tests, marks and
Assignments, Purpose of marking and assignments, Giving and
marking assignments, Awarding and assigning marks and grades,
methods of Study, Use of test book, Art of Note-Making,
Organisation of work, Revision and review of work, Physical
Environment of the classroom, Preparation for examination. Use of
Audio-Visual Aids, Importance of Audio-Visual in Teaching, Types
of Audio-visual Aids and their uses.
EDU 214: Philosophy of Education (2 C)
Explaining concepts of education, (Aims: - goals, objectives, end,
means); Philosophy and philosophers; Curriculum: The nature of
Education in Nigeria (metaphysics) – formal and informal education,
auxiliary education, Liberal and vocational education. Knowledge and
education in Nigeria – (Epistemology) Definitions of knowledge,
Types of knowledge; Knowledge by divine revelation, By institution
Prior knowledge, Posteriori knowledge, Need for knowledge in
modern Nigeria morality and education (axiology) Define concepts of
morality and education, Determinants of good education, Logic and
education, Inductive and Deductive methods of teaching; Logic and
curriculum planning, Logic and School Administration; Discipline;
Freedom, Determination and Free will.
Aesthetic Expressions in Primary Education
Drawing and painting of simple objects, concepts and practices, rules
of visual observation and use of various media for drawing and
painting lettering and simple designs for aesthetics decorations.
ECE 223: Plays and Learning (2 C)
Play – basic concepts, learning at childhood, kinds of learning, the
interrelationship between play and learning, growth and development
of pre-school child, the environment in early childhood education,
planning the environment, play-based learning and teaching models,
play materials, daycare learning activities, outdoor facilities,
organising the outdoor learning environment, play and the Montessori
approach, principles of learning and instruction, the Montessori
method.

-- 151 of 377 --

152
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
ECE 221: Language and Literacy in Early Education
Childhood (2C)
Development of language, the process of language acquisition, the
role of language in early years, mother tongue, English language and
bilingualism in early years, behaviourist theory of language
acquisition, Vygotsky’s cultural/cognitive, theory of language
acquisition, maturationist theory of language acquisition, literacy
and pre-reading activities and reading, readiness approaches for
teaching reading, organisation of reading instruction, reading
activities, handwriting, developing writing, language and literacy
across the curriculum.
ECE 230: Introduction to Curriculum Development in Early
Childhood Education (2 C)
Curriculum concepts, theoretical foundation of pre-school curriculum,
early childhood development, meeting the needs of the children pre-
school curriculum development models similarities and differences
among pre-school curriculum development models, the role of the
teacher in curriculum development, early childhood curriculum
content and context, evaluation of pre-school curriculum, modes of
pre-school curriculum evaluation, quality indicators.
ECE 231: Science in the Early Years (2 C)
The study of the history of science: What is Science? The
importance of science, the nature of Science, the history; The
beginnings of Science: Science and Crafts, the beginning of human
history, the beginning of Civilisations, Science in the early Egypt and
Babylonia, the contributions of the early civilisations e.g. tools,
writing, medicine and surgery, Astronomy, Mathematics etc. The
History of Science in the middle Ages: The beginnings of theoretical
science e.g. Physics, Chemistry, Mathematics, Medicine, Astronomy
and Physiology, Biology, etc., the decline of science, Science in the
East (Islamic World (C642 – C1000 AD); Science in Western Europe
(CII – C15 AD): Scientist of the period, Scientific and technological
advancement; Science in the renaissance period (1400 – 1600);
Science in the 17th Century; Science in the 18th Century; Science in
the 19th Century; Science in the 20th Century; Science in the
Millennium

-- 152 of 377 --

153
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
ECE 232: Observation, Recording and Assessment in Early
Childhood Education (2 C)
Historical perspectives and issues of early childhood assessment,
observing and criticising screening approaches, assessment
techniques and materials, observation and authentic assessment and
its relationship to curriculum in early childhood, legal and ethical
issues of assessment of young children.
ECE227: Organisation and Service Provision in Early Childhood
Education (2 C)
Organisation and service provision, knowledge of administrative and
supervisory issues, administrative policies, financial budget planning,
preparation and fiscal management, professionalism of early
childhood teacher, behavioural issues within an organisation, issues
of motivation and morale, conflict resolution and group dynamics,
child care agencies.
EDU 290: Early Childhood Education Methods (2 C)
The basic teaching methods in early childhood education child
centered method, questioning method, group methods, story- telling
method, project method, discussion method, play method,
demonstration method, Montessori method, activity method, role
playing method, phonic method, selection of teaching methods,
teaching and learning environment.
ECE 222: Developing Professional Skills and Competence (2C)
Teaching as a profession. Meaning and characteristics of a profession.
The challenge of the teacher’s work from the Christian Missionary
Era to the Era of Universalisation of access to education. The
Teachers Registration Council. National Policy on Teacher Education
in Nigeria. The Goals of Teacher Education in Nigeria. Qualities of a
good teacher. Behavioural job expectations for teachers. Learner
characteristics and teacher interaction. The teaching – learning
process. Planning to teach. Keeping up to date in teaching. The place
of teachers in the society.

-- 153 of 377 --

154
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
ENG 121: Structure of Modern English I (2 C)
General introduction to the structure of English: phonological,
syntactic and morphological levels; basic sentence phrase structures,
clause types and inter – sentential relations, etc
EDU 323: Basic Research Methods in Education (2 C)
Meaning of Research; Scientific method of research, Selection of the
topic, Subjects etc for research; Purposes of research studies;
Guidelines in selection of topics, Preparing a research proposal,
Statement of the problem; Determination of data required;
Hypothetical conclusions and implication, Collecting information and
data; Observation and interview methods, Basic consideration in data
collection; The correspondence method; Analysis and interpretation
of Data; Basic statistical concept and Their Computation, Designs of
Experiments:- Basic types of errors; Simple Randomised Design,
Random – Replications Design; Groups- within – Treatment design;
Treatment of extra venous variables, Scaling Problems and
Techniques:- Rating Scales, Rank-order Scales, etc, Determination of
Scale Value
EDU 314: Comparative Education (2 C)
Scope and meaning of Education, Examination of Significant
Differences and Similarities in Education Policy and Practices in
Selected Societies, Problems of Educational Development in
Developing Countries.
EDU 335: Teaching Practice I (3 C)
Students learn through practical experience how to teach particular
subjects, manage a classroom and the functions of a good teacher.
EDU 321: Psychology of Learning (2 C)
Definitions of psychology & learning; Theories of learning and the
theorists levels of motivation and implication for education; Memory
and forgetting, Types of memory, Method of improving memory,
Types of forgetting, Factors influencing forgetting, Implication for
education; Cognitive theory of learning; Reinforcement and
punishment and classroom application; Behaviourism, Contributions
of behavioral psychologists and classroom application; Transfer of

-- 154 of 377 --

155
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
learning and classroom application, S – R theory of Thorndike –
Skinner, Meaning of S – R, The Laws of readiness, Exercise and
effect; Punishment; Classroom application
EDU 332: Educational Technology (2 C)
Definition of Instructional Technology, its Philosophy, Terminology,
Roles of Instructional Technology in the Learning Process, The
experience, Theory of Learning, learning and Communication in the
classroom, Learning has changed behaviour, The teacher’s
responsibilities, Selecting and using materials and media in
Instructional, Visual aids, Non-projected aids, Projectors, Projected
aids, Audio-visual aids, Creating Instructional Materials, Duplicators,
Equipment Operation, projection, Recording.
ECE 313: Theories and Practice of Early Childhood Education
(2C)
The historical and philosophical bases of early childhood education,
the nature and contexts of child development, surveys theories about
children’s growth and development from birth through eight years of
age, stages of cognitive development, physical, social, emotional and
moral development, language development, causes and characteristics
of developmental and malies. Contemporary early childhood models
–Maria Montessori, Reggio Emilia models.
ECE 311: Introduction to Cultural and Creative Arts (2C)
Families and communities, child rearing practices and communication
patterns in the family, cultural differences, family and community
arts-carving, basketing, leatherwork. graphic and textile, drama,
festivals and ceremonies, drawing of simple objects using pencil, pen,
ink, charcoal, graphite, pastel, etc. Colour mixture with emphasis on
tonal values, monochromatic raising, specific polychromatic pasting
of objects with particular reference to shapes, forms and tones,
objectives, principles and aims of teaching creative arts, roles of
creative arts in classroom and to students, how to teach creative arts
to pupils.

-- 155 of 377 --

156
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
MAT 102: Introduction to Statistics in Education (2C)
Measures of Central Tendency and dispersion, (grouped and
ungrouped); mean:- arithmetic and geometric, harmonic, median,
mode quartiles, deciles, modes, relative and absolute dispersion,
sample space and events as sets. Finite probability space properties
of probability. Statistical independence and conditional probability.
Tree diagram. Bayes theorem. Discrete and continuous random
variables. Expectation, independent Bernoulli trials. Binomial
Poisson and Normal distributions. Normal approximation to binomial
and Poisson distribution, Hyper geometric.
EDU 421: Fundamentals of Guidance and Counselling (2
C)
Meaning, Purpose and Development of Guidance and Counseling,
The services of a School Guidance programme; - The individual
appraisal service. Information needed for the analysis of the
individual, collection of information (test, inventories etc).
Organising recording and filing information; Use of recorded
information; Information service:- Vocational Education and Personal
Social Information, Methods of obtaining and Disseminating
information; The Counselling Service:- Nature, Purpose and Theories
of Counseling; The Counsellor and the counseling process, The
Placement Service in School and out-of School placement, follow up
studies; Purposes of and procedures in follow-up studies, Problems in
Guidance and counselling:- Values and attitude orientation, Guidance
as Classroom or Specialist Centered, Guidance as Direction or
Developments, Problems of Social change, Relation with other
Personnel and Services:-Counsellor and School Administration,
Relationship with teachers, Extra – School Relationship, Working
with Parents and Making Referential, Guidance:- Organisation and
Implementation, Preparation of Occupational, Information,
Practicum; Preparing and using Cumulative records.
EDU 412: Educational Management (2 C)
Define educational administration, Educational law and the control of
Education in Nigeria, The organisation of the Ministry of Education
and the function of boards of education, the Nigerian Educational
system, the school and the community, Bureaucracy and decision

-- 156 of 377 --

157
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
making in educational administration, human relations in Educational
administration, Educational Leadership, the role of the principal, staff
personnel administration, supervision of instruction, Admission
Procedures, Student’s records and reports, Student’s discipline and
welfare, Student organisation and participation in School
Administration, Principle of planning, School finance and accounting
system, School routine and time table, The school plant and facilities,
Examinations and the problems of academic standards, Evaluation
and school inspection.
EDU 423: Measurement and Evaluation (2 C)
Definition and purpose of Measurement and Evaluation, Importance
of Tests in Education; Validity of Tests in Educational Achievement;
Functions of classroom tests, Criteria for effective testing, Problems
of tests construction; Measurement of educational outcomes,
Behavioral cognitive and non-cognitive of education, Pupils
characteristics to be measured, Types of tests, Essay and objective
type tests advantages and disadvantages of each, when to use each of
them. Tests Administration and Scoring, Judging the Quality of a
Classroom test, Estimating, Interpreting and improving reliability of
test, Validity of Classroom Tests, Problem of Marking Tests, and
Quality Control in Marking System.
ECE 421: Health and Family Life Education (2 C)
Stresses the importance of good family living. The variables involved
in marriage and divorce such as dating, going steady, pregnancy and
child rearing practices are examined with the educational
implications. Improvement of personal health knowledge. Provides
motivation for self direction in personal health related issues.
EDU 420: Research Project (4 C)
An application of the research methods and data processing course to
a field experience under the guidance of a selected facilitator.
EDU 426: Special Education (2 C)
Concept of special education, its definition and origins. Examination
of the terms integration, inclusion, and individualised education
programme within the context of special education. Giftedness, its

-- 157 of 377 --

158
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
meaning, and causes as well as case studies of the gifted. The
education of gifted children. Hearing impairment and educational
considerations for the deaf. Visual impairment, its causes and history.
Educational considerations for visually impaired children.
EDU 435: Teaching Practice II (3 C)
A minimum of six weeks supervised exposure to classroom teaching
on field experience to demonstrate the degree of proficiency in
applying some of the basic theories of instruction.
ECE 422: The School Environment and the Child (2C)
The school environment and the child’s place in the ecological
system, concept of integration in human environment. The concept of
limits, social and economic. Student-resource relations, ecology of
human resource, consequences of child environment relations.
ECE 413: Comparative Early Childhood Education (2C)
An examination of early childhood education projects in the USA,
UK, Nigeria etc., the primary science projects, the project selection
criteria, findings and relevance of the above to early childhood
education.
ECE 410: Issues in Early Childhood and Primary Education
(2C)
Discussion of current issues in the operation of early childhood
institutions. Issues of regulations, the language of instruction
problems.
ECE 412: Management of Early Childhood Education (2C)
Types of early childhood programmes, primary education
programmes, roles of resource, persons in childhood institutions,
child indices, nursery assistants/aids. Class teachers, volunteer
workers, proprietors/proprietresses, head teachers, board
members/directors, finances – budget planning & preparation,
equipment and facilities, licensing rules and regulations, monitoring
and control.

-- 158 of 377 --

159
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
ECE420: Seminar in Early Childhood Education (2 C)
Active participation of students in seminar presentation in early
childhood education topics such as: the concept of early childhood
education, the nature and concept of the psychology of child
development, meaning and forms of education, concept and types of
early childhood education, the role expectation of early primary
school teacher, child rearing and care in African society, purposes and
needs of early childhood education, the rights of children, the
acquisition of attitudes and skills, the development of pre-school
education in Nigeria, the UBE and early childhood education,
learning in childhood, kinds of learning, the relationship between play
and learning, play and the Montessori approach, principles of learning
and instruction, the process of language acquision, concept of
integration in human environment, consequences of child
environment relations, and types of early childhood programmes and
their implications, amongst others, will be given out to students for
presentation at the study centres under the supervision of the
Instructional Facilitators.
PED 122: Primary English Curriculum and Methods (2 C)
This is an introductory course to provide students with basic
knowledge, course to understand the skills as applying in the
principles of educational practice to the teaching of English Language
in primary schools, major aspects examined include why and how of
teaching English language, development in English language
curricula, evaluation techniques and classroom organisation and
management
PED 236: Elementary Mathematics (2 C)
Number and numeration: basic arithmetic operations in integers;
indices, logarithms and surds; meaning and types of fractions, number
bases; approximations; rate; proportion; and ratio. Algebraic
processes: factorisation and linear equations; quadratic and
simultaneous equations; algebraic graphs; change of subject of
formulae linear inequalities. Geometrical solids and shapes; triangles;
circle; area and volume of various geometrical; solids and shapes

-- 159 of 377 --

160
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
PED 313: Historical and Cultural Background of Immediate
Environment (2 C)
Overview of cultural differences in child-rearing practices,
communication patterns and experiences of families, children and
their views of self and others in the Family, school and community,
support networks in the community.
PED 237: Measurements and Shapes (2 C)
Measurement and calculations, standards units of measurement,
significant figures, unit conversions and calculations, definition of
density, basic and derived units, uncertainties in measurement, kind
and properties of lines, angles and triangles, solids or 3-demensional
shapes, plane shapes, perimeters of plane, areas, curved and total,
surface areas, volumes of simple solids.
PED 144: Primary Mathematics Curriculum and Methods (2
C)
Basic concept underlying the determination of objectives, the
selection and organisation of learning experiences and evaluation
process, the beginning and nature of merits as distinctive discipline,
assessment of mathematics attainment, concept, formation and
attitudes transferred from home to the primary schools, individual
differences in pupils’ maths abilities, the teaching of numbers and
fundamental properties of operations in arithmetic.
PED 322: Methods of Teaching Reading in Primary School (2C)
Nature of reading, reading readiness, reading approaches, methods,
strategies and types of reading: Language skills and their
interrelatedness; the nature of reading and important reading
experiences in the primary school; reading readiness skills;
approaches, methods and strategies of teaching reading I (phonics,
structural, look and say, word form clues, picture clues and context
clues); approaches, methods and strategies of teaching reading II:
language experience, whole language, literature based, oral, silent and
individualised); types of reading: oral and silent, skimming and
scanning, intensive and extensive). Development of reading skills:
goals and objectives of teaching reading; development of word
recognition skills; development of interpretative skills; development

-- 160 of 377 --

161
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
of skills for reading in content areas; resources for teaching reading
evaluation of reading skills
PED 271: Primary School Physical and Health Education and
Curriculum and Methods (2 C)
The nature and scope of physical and health education, emphasis
should be on academic failure and how achievement problems on
academics, factors responsible for poor academic achievement, study
habits and academic achievement, types and uses of achievement test,
remediation methods, fundamental skills in relation to movement
education organisation of sports and games in primary school with
special reference to common sports in Nigeria, safety maintenance.
PED 421: Developmental Guidance in Primary Education (2 C)
What is developmental guidance (areas of educational, personal and
vocational development)? Who are guidance Counsellors? What are
the functions of a guidance Counsellor? What are the educational
guidance needs of children in the primary school? What are the
personal guidance needs of a primary school child? What are the
social guidance needs of a primary school child? What are the
emotional guidance needs of a primary school child? Guidance
services in primary schools: Collaborative guidance services in
primary schools (parents, teachers, Counsellors, etc)
PED 433: Children’s Literature (2 C)
Young children’s literacy development strategies children use to
become readers and writers, recording and reporting children’s
literacy development, models of literacy instruction, young children
prose and poem, writers of children books.
PED 430: Design and Production of Learning Materials for
Primary School (2C)
The need for learning Materials in Primary School as Primary
Education within the context of the National Policy of Education, the
Characteristics of Primary School Children, The Primary School
Curriculum, Teaching and Learning, Primary School Children
Learning Styles, Design of Instructional Materials, Designing
Instructional materials, Producing Instructional Materials, Theories

-- 161 of 377 --

162
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Relevant to the Design and Production of Learning Materials.,
Development and Production of Learning Materials, Analysis Phase,
Design Phase of Learning Materials Evaluation Phase – Evaluating
Learning Materials, The Learning Package, Application of Learning
Materials in the Classroom Plan, Prepare, and use Learning Materials,
Effective use of the Environment.
PED 431: Continuous Assessment in Primary School (2C)
Emphasis on the nature and role of continuous assessment in
diagnostic and prescriptive management in teaching and learning,
cumulative record keeping and rudiments of achievement test
construction, continuous assessment record keeping using
achievement test scores (emphasising statistical techniques such as
the measurement of central tendencies and dispersion, transformation
of scores, weighting of scores) for obtaining students academic
profile.
PED 312: Fundamentals of Early Childhood and Primary
Education (2C)
Meaning, philosophy, purpose and history of early childhood and
primary education; great philosophers/educators contributions to early
childhood and primary education; research methods in early
childhood and primary education; understanding growth and
development of early childhood and primary education by teachers
and caregivers; major theories of early childhood and middle
childhood; implications of the theories for learning and teaching
preschoolers and primary school pupils; early childhood and primary
education curriculum delivery; teaching methods in early childhood
and primary education; teaching and learning resources early
childhood and primary education; early childhood
programmes/centres and primary education; minimum standards for
establishment; challenges of early childhood and primary education.
PED 351: Adult Basic Education (2C)
Meaning / concept of education; brief history of education in Nigeria;
formal education; informal education; importance of education;
difference between education and literacy; meaning / concept of
adulthood/adult education; the national policy on adult education;

-- 162 of 377 --

163
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
characteristics of adult basic education; characteristics of adult
learner; goals of adult basic education; history of adult education in
Nigeria; rationale for adult education in the Nigerian teacher
education programme; types of adult education; methods of teaching
in adult education programmes; innovations in adult education
programs in Nigeria; problems of adult education in Nigeria;
strategies applied to promote adult education, literacy and non-formal
education in Nigeria
EDU 302: ICT in Education (2C)
ICT in Education Teachers’ Professional Development Toolkit,
Course Introduction, Understanding ICT in Education: Advancing
Policy through Classroom Action and the use of Technology,
Modification of Lesson Plans to Support Policy, Internet Navigation,
Modification of Lesson Plans to Support Policy, National ICT Policy
and its Impact on Education, Report on Policy Impact. Curriculum &
Assessment: Curriculum Standards, Internet Search Engines –
Advanced Searching, School Records, Classroom Records. Pedagogy:
Integrating ICT to Support Didactic Teaching Methodologies,
PowerPoint for Pedagogues, Strategies for Integrating ICT into
Learning, Graphic Tools to Enhance Teaching and Learning.
Organisation and Administration: Learning Activities for a Computer
Laboratory Environment, Management of the Use of ICT in a
Classroom Environment. Teacher Professional Development: Teacher
Productivity Strategies, Use of ICT to Support Lifelong Learning,
Safety Issues in Digital Environments.
EDU 216: Special Method II (Micro Teaching)
The course shall examine the theory and practical aspect of micro
teaching. Specifically, it will expose students to meaning of micro
teaching, teaching skills such as set induction skills, stimulus
variation skills, questioning skills, non-verbal communication skills,
use of instructional material skills and closure skills. Students are
expected to demonstrate each of the skills under supervision of micro
teaching lecturer.

-- 163 of 377 --

164
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
PED 342: Methods of Teaching Creative Arts in Early Childhood
and Primary Education (2C)
Art methodology, methods of teaching arts, creative art curriculum
for early childhood and primary education classroom, visual arts in
early childhood and primary education, qualities of a good creative art
teacher, fine art, applied art, creative art material and improvisation,
basic scheme of work on creative arts for young artist, arts
appreciation, young artists and creativity, art terminologies for better
understanding of creative art, factors affecting the teaching of creative
art in early childhood and primary education, structure of a successful
work of art.
112: Reading in Early Childhood and Primary Education
Fundamentals of reading instruction at the preschool and lower
primary school levels, importance of reading in language
development and academic achievement of pre-schoolers; theories
that underlie the choice of approaches, methods, techniques and
instructional resources needed to develop the reading and academic
skills of pre-schoolers and primary level pupils.
EDU 336: Post Teaching Practice Evaluation/Remediation
(2C)
The student is required to write a comprehensive report on his/her
experiences in practical implementation of teaching/learning
strategies in the classroom as applied to the subject area. The report
should include:
• Challenges encountered during the teaching practice
• The lesson notes used during the teaching practice
• Assessment questions as well as the marking guides used
• Assessment of teaching practice supervision by the supervisor,
and
• Suggestions for improvement.
The report should be submitted by the student to the Dean through the
Study Centre Director for:
• Evaluation

-- 164 of 377 --

165
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
• Feedback, and
• Remediation.
The result of the overall processes should be communicated to the
student from the Dean through the Study Centre Director.
B.Sc (Ed) Physics
Graduation Requirement
The B.Sc (Ed) Physics is structured to run for a minimum of four
years and a maximum of eight years for students starting at 100 level
or a minimum of three years and a maximum of six years for students
entering at 200 level.
To be eligible for the award of the B.Sc. (Ed) Hons. in Physics a
student must have passed a minimum of 145 and 106 credit units for
the four year and threeyear degree programme respectively.
Table 9: B.Sc (Ed) Physics
(a)Year I First Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit(s)
Status
GST 101 Use of English and
Communication Skills I
2 C
GST 107 The Good Study Guide 2 C
EDU
111
Foundations of Education 2 C
PHY 101 Elementary Mechanics, Heat
and Properties of Matter 3 C
PHY 191 Introductory Practical Physics I 1 C
BIO191
Introductory Practical Biology
I 1 C
BIO 101 General Biology I 2 C
CHM191
Introductory Practical
Chemistry I 1 C
CHM
101
Introductory Inorganic
Chemistry 2 C

-- 165 of 377 --

166
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
CHM
103
Introductory Physical
Chemistry 2 C
CIT 101 Computers in Society 2 C
Total Credit Units 20
(b) Second Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit(s)
Status
GST 102 Use of English and
Communication Skills II
2 C
EDU
112
Professionalism in Teaching 2 C
EDU
114 History of Education in Nigeria 2 C
BIO192 General Biology Practical II 1 C
PHY 192 Introductory Physics Laboratory II 1 C
MTH101 General Mathematics I 3 C
MTH
102 General Mathematics II 3 C
PHY 103 Geometric and Wave Optics 1 C
PHY 102 Electricity, Magnetism and
Modern Physics 3 C
CHM192 Introductory Practical Chemistry
II 1 C
Total Credit Units 19
(c ) Year II First Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit(s)
Status
GST Nigerian Peoples and Culture 2 C

-- 166 of 377 --

167
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
201
GST
203
Introductory to Philosophy and
Logic
2 C
EDU
231
Curriculum Theory and Practice 2 C
EDU
233
General Teaching Methods 2 C
PHY
207 Thermodynamics 2 C
PHY
201 Classical Mechanics I 3 C
PHY
203 Oscillations and Waves 2 C
PHY
291 Physics Laboratory I 1 C
Total Credit Units 16
(d) Second Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit
Status
GST
202
Fundamentals of Peace Studies and
Conflict Resolutions
2 C
EDU
256
Physics Methods 2 C
EDU
212 Sociology of Education 2 C
EDU
214 Philosophy of Education 2 C
PHY
202 Modern Physics I 3 C
PHY
204 Electromagnetism 2 C
PHY
208 Network Analysis and Devices 3 C
Total Credit Units 16

-- 167 of 377 --

168
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
(e) Year III First Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit
Status
EDU
335
Teaching Practice I 3 C
EDU
321
Psychology Of Learning 2 C
GST
301
Entrepreneurship Studies 2 C
EDU
323
Basic Research Methods In
Education
2 C
ENT
323 Entrepreneurship Education 2 C
SED
305 Practicum in Science Teaching 3 C
Phy304 Electrodynamics 1 2 C
PHY
391 Physics Laboratory II 2 C
PHY
301
Classical Mechanics 2 C
PHY
307
Solid State Physics I 2 C
PHY
311
Kinetic Theory and Statistical
Mechanics 2 C
Total Credit Units 24
(f) Second Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit
Status
EDU
332 Educational Technology 2 C
EDU
336
Post Teaching Practice
Evaluation/Remediation 2 C
EDU
314 Comparative Education 2 C
MTH
305
Complex Analysis II 3 C

-- 168 of 377 --

169
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
PHY302 Modern Physics II 2 C
PHY
314 Numerical Computations 2 C
PHY
308
Electronics I 2 C
PHY305 Energy 1 C
PHY
312
Mathematical Methods for Physics
I 3 C
Total Credit Units 19
(g)Year IV First Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit
Status
EDU
421
Guidance and Counselling 2 C
EDU
423
Measurement And Evaluation 2 C
EDU
435
Teaching Practice II 3 C
SED
413 Science, Technology and Society 2 C
PHY
403 Electrodynamics II 2 C
PHY
407 Solid State Physics II 3 C
PHY457 Environmental Physics 3 C
Total Credit Units 17
(h) Second Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit
Status
EDU
412
Principles of Educational
Management 2 C
EDU
420 Research Project 4 C
EDU Special Education 2 C

-- 169 of 377 --

170
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
426
PHY
402 Nuclear Physics 3 C
PHY401 Elementary Particle Physics 3 C
Total Credit Units 14
Course Content Specification
GST 101: Use of English and Communication Skills I (2 C)
Listening enabling skills, listening and comprehending
comprehension, note taking and information retrieval. Including data,
figures, diagrams and charts. Listening for main idea, interpretation
and critical evaluation. Effective reading. Skimming and scanning.
Reading and comprehension at various speed levels. Vocabulary
development in various academic contexts. Reading diverse texts in
narratives and expository. Reading and comprehension passages with
tables, scientific texts. Reading for interpretation and critical
evaluation.
GST 102: Use of English and Communication Skills II (2 C)
Writing paragraphs: Topic sentence and coherence. Development of
paragraphs: illustration, Description, cause and effect including
definitions. Formal letters; essential parts and stylistic forms,
complaints and requests; jobs, ordering goods, letters to government
and other organisations. Writing reports; reporting event,
experiments. Writing summaries: techniques of summarising letters
and sounds in English, vowels and consonants. Interviews, seminar
presentation, public speech making, articles, concord and sentences
including tenses. Gerund, participles, active, passive and the
infinitive. Modal auxiliaries.
GST 105: History and Philosophy of Science (2 C)
Nature of science, scientific methods and theories, law of nature,
history of science, lost sciences of African, science, technology and
inventions, nature and scope of philosophy in science, man, nature

-- 170 of 377 --

171
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
and his origin, man, environment and resources, Great Nigerian
Scientists
GST 107: The Good Study Guide (2 C)
Getting Started: How to use the book, why read about study skills,
getting yourself organised, what is studying all about, reading and
note-taking: introduction, reactions to reading, your reading strategy,
memory, taking notes, conclusion. Other ways of studying:
Introduction, learning in groups, talks and lectures, learning from T.V
and Radio broadcasts, other study media. Working with numbers:
Getting to know numbers, describing the world, describing the tables,
describing with diagrams and graphs, what is good writing? The
importance of writing, what does an essay look like, what is a good
essay, conclusion. How to write essays: Introduction, the craft of
writing, the advantages of treating essay writing as a craft, making
your essay flow, making a convincing case, the experience of writing.
Preparing for examination.
EDU 111: Foundations of Education (2 C)
Philosophical and psychological perspective, philosophy of
education, meaning and relevance, equality of educational
opportunity, psychology of education, introduction to learning
theories, readiness to learning, motivation and its relation to learning,
transfer of learning, historical and sociological perspective, concept
and nature of education, types of education, the growth of education
in Nigeria, educational trends in Nigeria, innovations in education,
the status of teachers in Nigeria, education and society, social class
and educational opportunity, factors that influence education.
EDU 112: Professionalism in Teaching (2 C)
Concepts and issues in teaching, concepts of teaching and
professionalism, history of teaching in Nigeria, professional growth
of teachers, educating the educators, professional studies programs
for teachers, the teacher and the child, why teachers should care, the
making of ideal teacher, qualities of an ideal teacher, the role of the
teacher, the Nigerian Union of Teachers (NUT),the role of Parent
Teachers Association (PTA),the subject teachers association, the

-- 171 of 377 --

172
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
status of teachers in Nigeria, strategies for making teaching a
profession.
EDU 114: History of Education in Nigeria (2 C)
Nigeria traditional education, higher education in traditional society,
Islamic education in Nigeria, in Nigeria, the early missionaries and
the development of education in Nigeria, colonial government
involvement in Nigeria Education 1872 – 1882, Education
Ordinances 1887 – 1916, the impact of Phelps – Stokes Commission
on Education in Northern Nigeria, Secondary Education from 1859 –
1929, Higher Education, The National Curriculum Conference and
the National Policy on Education.
PHY 111: Elementary Mechanics (2 C)
Physical quantities, standards and units; Kinematics: uniform
velocity motion, uniformly acceleration motion; Dynamics: Newton's
laws of motion; Newton's universal law of gravitation; Work, energy,
conservation laws. Concept of mechanical equilibrium. Centre of
mass and centre of gravity. Moment of a force; Rotational motion,
angular momentum and torque; Total mechanical energy; Elasticity:
Hooke's law, Young's, shear and bulk modulus; Hydrostatics:
pressure, buoyancy, Archimedes' principle; Elements of
hydrodynamics; Molecular properties of fluids: viscosity, surface
tension, adhesion, cohesion, capillarity, drops and bubbles.
PHY 113: Heat And Properties of Matter (2 C)
Temperature and the Zeroth law of thermodynamics. Quantity of heat.
First and second laws of thermo-dynamics. Heat transfer; Heat
capacities; Latent heat; Gas laws. Isothermal and Adiabatic
expansions; Carnot cycle; Application of kinetic theory of gases
PHY 132: Electricity, Magnetism and Modern Physics (2C)
Electrostatics: Coulomb’s law, Gauss’s law, potential and
capacitance, dielectrics, production and measurement of static
electricity. Current: Ohm's law, resistance and resistivity, heating.
Galvanometers, Voltmeters and Ammeters; D.C. circuits: sources of
emf and currents, Kirchhoff’s laws; Electrochemistry; The Earth's
magnetic field; Magnetic fields induction, Faraday's and Lenz's laws;

-- 172 of 377 --

173
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Force on a current-carrying conductor. Biot-Savart law. Flemming's
right and left-hand rules, motors and generators. Atomic structure;
Production and properties of X-rays; Radioactivity; Photoelectric
emission.
PHY 124: Geometrical and Wave Optics (2 C)
Geometrical Optics: law of reflection and refraction; Location of
images: Plane and curved mirrors; Converging and diverging thin
lenses; Thick lenses; Lens defects; Aberrations; The eye; Optical
instruments. Simple Harmonic motion; Wave motion and wave types;
Dispersion; Production of sound in strings and pipes resonance,
applications; Simple description of diffraction and interference,
applications to both light and sound waves; Polarisation of transverse
waves.
PHY 191: Introductory Practical Physics I (2 C)
Graphs, Measurement, Error Analysis, Determination of Acceleration
due to Gravity by Means of Simple Pendulum, Determination of force
constant of a spiral spring, Determination of effective mass of a spiral
spring and the constant, Determination of surface tension of water,
Determination of specific latent heat of fusion of ice, Determination
of the co-efficient of limiting static friction between two surfaces,
Determination of the co-efficient of static friction on two surfaces
using an inclined plane, Determination of Relative Density of
kerosene using the specific Gravity Bottle, Determination of the
Relative Density of a Granular substance not soluble in water using
the specific gravity bottle.
PHY 192: Introductory Practical Physics II (2 Units)
Refraction through the glass block; Image formed by a concave
mirror; Determination of the focal length of the convex mirror;
Refraction through the triangular prism; Determination of the focal
length of a converging lens and the refractive index of groundnut;
Determination of resistance of resistors in series and in parallel in
simple circuits; Determination of internal resistance of a dry cell
using a potentiometer; To compare the E.M.F of cells using
potentiometer; Determine the unknown resistance of a resistor using

-- 173 of 377 --

174
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Wheatstone Bridge; To determine the relationship between current
trough a Tungsten and a potential applied across it.
MTH 122: Integral Calculus (2 Units)
Fundamental theorem of calculus. Integration by parts, change of
variable method, integration of rational functions, trigonometric
integral, trigonometric substitutions. Numerical integration:
Trapezoidal Method.
MTH 133: Trigonometry (2 C)
Trigonometric functions; Radian measure, law of sine and cosine,
sum, differences and product formulas. Trigonometric identities,
Inverse trigonometric functions, solutions of Trigonometric
equations. Exponential and logarithmic functions, laws of exponents
and a logarithm. Algebraic functions, polynomials, division
algorithm, synthetic division, factor theorem, remainder theorem.
Rational functions, asymptotes partial factions.
MTH 112: Differential Calculus (2 C)
Real number: The number line, intervals, properties of absolute value.
Solving inequalities sign chart. Function from IR to IR, domain
range, graph, monotonically increasing, decreasing functions. Inverse
functions. Composition of functions. Even and odd functions,
periodic functions, Limits, convergence sequences. Limit of a
function, left and right limits and continuity. Differentiability at a
point and on an interval. Sum, product and quotient rule. Chain rule
for inverse function. Implicit differential.
MTH 142: Vectors and Geometry (2 C)
Equations of lines and planes. Conic sections, circles parabola,
hyperbola, ellipse. Vectors in IR2, IR3, Scalar products. Vector
product Triple products. Application to Geometry. The notion of
displacement, speed, velocity and acceleration of a particle. Newton’s
laws of motions and applications to simple problems. Work, power,
and energy. Application of the principle of conservation of energy to
motion of particles and those involving elastic string and springs.
Simple Harmonic motion. Resultant of any number of forces acting
on a particle. Reduction of coplanar forces acting on a rigid body to a

-- 174 of 377 --

175
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
force and a couple. Equilibrium of coplanar forces, parallel forces,
couples. Laws of friction. Application of the principle of moments.
Moment of Inertia of simple bodies.(Note: Vector approach should
be used where necessary)
CHM 103: Introductory Physical Chemistry (2 E)
Mole concepts and calculations based on it. Methods of expressing
concentration. Chemical kinetics and equilibria and related
calculations. Important applications of equilibria.PH, solubility
products and solubility of ionic solids. Thermo-chemistry and simple
calculations based on Hess’s law. Electrochemistry and working of
various cells.
Brief mention of corrosion, chemical thermodynamics, dG = dH –
TdS.
GST 201: Nigerian Peoples and Culture (2 C)
Nigerian history, culture and arts in pre-colonial times; Nigerians’
perception of their world; culture areas of Nigeria and their
characteristics; evolution of Nigeria as a political unit;
indigene/settler phenomenon; concepts of trade; economic self-
reliance; social justice; individual and national development; norms
and values; negative attitudes and conducts (cultism and related
vices); re-orientation of moral and national values; moral obligations
of citizens; environmental problems.
GST 202: Philosophy and Logic (2 C)
Fundamentals of logic and critical thinking; types of discourse; nature
of arguments; validity and soundness; techniques for evaluating
arguments; distinction between inductive and deductive inferences;
etc. Illustrations from familiar texts, including literature materials,
novels, law reports and newspaper publications.
GST 202: Fundamentals of Peace Studies and Conflict
Resolutions
Basic Understanding of Conflict; Definitions, Causes and Types of
Conflict, Conflict Theories, Phases in Conflict, Conflict Analysis &
Transformation. Dynamics of Conflict; Relationship between

-- 175 of 377 --

176
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Perception and Conflict, Language Barriers in Conflict and
Resolution, Early Warning and Early Response Mechanism, Arms
Control and Demilitarisation, Peace and Education. Trends in Global
Issues: International, Continental and Regional Organisations in the
Pursuance of World Peace, Peaceful Methods of Conflict Resolution,
Coercive Means of Conflict Resolution, Gender Issues and
Humanitarian Intervention.
EDU 231: Curriculum Theory And Practice (2 C)
History of Curriculum Development in Nigeria: The importance of
curriculum, Curriculum Development and/or Improvement in a
developing country like Nigeria, Participants in Curriculum
Planning:- Levels of Planning, Approaches to Planning, Curriculum
Decisions:- Different Stages of Curriculum Decision, The 1969
National Curriculum Conference as a Case Study, Force affecting
Curriculum Decisions, Aims and Objectives of Nigeria Education,
Selection of Learning Experience:- Criteria for Selection, Programme
of Studies, Programme of Activities, Programme of Guidance,
Organisation of Learning Experience:- Traditional Organisation of
Curriculum, New Dimension in Organisation. Evaluation:- Evaluation
of Educational Programmes, Formative Evaluation (Action
Research), Summative Evaluation, Evaluation of the Achievement of
the Individual in the Programme:- Guidance – oriented Evaluation,
Selection – oriented Evaluation.
EDU 212: Sociology of Education (2 C)
Definition of Sociology, Education and Pedagogy from Sociological
Perspective, Education and Society, Theory of Knowledge, Principles
of the Sociology of Knowledge, Socialisation:- Culture and
Personality, Education and Social Frame Work:- The Family and
Education, Education and Social Stratification – the Nigeria Elites,
Education and Social Values, Moral Education in Changing Society;
Education, Social Justice and the Teacher, Equality in Education,
Freedom in Education. The Social Functions of Education –
Education and Social Change, Education and Social Economic
Development, The Political function of Education, The Sociology of
Teaching:- The Teacher and his Role; The Reluctant Learner, The
Teacher in the Classroom, Social Relations in the School.

-- 176 of 377 --

177
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
EDU 233: General Teaching Methods (2 C)
The Teacher and the Child, How children learn, Professional attitudes
and understanding of learners, The aims of the Teaching, The Stages
In Lesson Preparation:- The Syllabus, The Scheme of work, Lesson
Notes; Steps in preparation of notes, The problem of time –table.
General Teaching Methods:- Induction Method, Deduction Method,
Induction and Deduction Methods, The Lecture Method, Dramatic
Method, Questioning and Problem Methods, The Project Methods,
Activities in the Lesson, The Art of Classroom Management:-
Qualities of a good teacher, Some common bad habits to avoid,
Dealing with the problem of discipline in class. Questions and
Questioning, Students Natural Curiosity and Enquiry, Aims in
Questing, Questions in Classroom: The teacher’s questions, the
pupil’s questions, Guidelines for questioning. Testing and
Examinations, the purpose of testing, what to test, How and when to
test, Characteristics of a good test, types of tests, marks and
Assignments, Purpose of marking and assignments, Giving and
marking assignments, Awarding and assigning marks and grades,
methods of Study, Use of test book, Art of Note-Making,
Organisation of work, Revision and review of work, Physical
Environment of the classroom, Preparation for examination. Use of
Audio-Visual Aids, Importance of Audio-Visual in Teaching, Types
of Audio-visual Aids and their uses.
EDU 214: Philosophy of Education (2 C)
Explaining concepts of education, (Aims: - goals, objectives, end,
means); Philosophy and philosophers; Curriculum: The nature of
education in Nigeria (metaphysics) – formal and informal education,
auxiliary education, Liberal and vocational education. Knowledge and
education in Nigeria – (Epistemology) Definitions of knowledge,
Types of knowledge; Knowledge by divine revelation, By institution
Prior knowledge, Posteriori knowledge, Need for knowledge in
modern Nigeria morality and education (axiology) Define concepts of
morality and education, Determinants of good education, Logic and
education, Inductive and Deductive methods of teaching; Logic and
curriculum planning, Logic and School Administration; Discipline;
Freedom, Determination and Free will.

-- 177 of 377 --

178
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
EDU 256: Physics Methods (2C)
Developing a point of view in physics teaching structure and
epistemological foundation of physics and implication for teaching,
Strategies of teaching physics, Resources for physics teaching and
laboratory management, Evaluation of physics teaching and learning,
School physics curricular, Physics organisation, Projects.
PHY 211: Mechanics I (2 C)
Particle kinematics and dynamics, Work, energy and power, Angular
momentum and torque, Newtonian gravitation, many particle
systems, rigid body dynamics.
PHY 202: Modern Physics I (2 C)
Atomic structure, Charge quantisation, Mass spectra, the plum
pudding model, Rutherford model and Bohr models of the atom,
Hydrogen spectra, Magnetic moment and Angular momentum of an
atom, Electron spin, Pauli exclusion principle and electronic
configuration, X-ray spectra, Wave-particle duality, Nuclear
structure: nomenclature, binding energy and stability, Radioactivity,
The radioactive series, Accelerators, Detectors.
PHY 203: Oscillations and Waves (3 C)
Simple harmonic motion, Superposition of simple harmonic
oscillations, Damped harmonic motion, Forced oscillations and
resonance, Coupled oscillations, Wave motion, Waves at the
boundary of two media, Superposition of waves.
PHY 204: Electromagnetism (2 C)
Macroscopic properties of dielectrics: polarisation, Gauss’s law in a
dielectric, the displacement vector, boundary conditions on D and E,
dielectric strength and breakdown; Capacitor: capacitance, the
parallel plate capacitor, effect of a dielectric, energy stored in a
dielectric medium, capacitors in series and parallel, practical
capacitors; Microscopic properties of dielectrics: microscopic picture
of a dielectric in a uniform electric field, determination of local field,
Clausius-Mossotti equation, behaviour of dielectric in alternating
fields; Magnetism of materials: response of various substances to a
magnetic field, magnetic moment and angular momentum of an atom,

-- 178 of 377 --

179
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
diamagnetism and paramagnetism, Lamor precession, magnetisation
of paramagnets, ferromagnetism, magnetic field due to a magnetised
material, magnetic intensity, relationship between E and H for
magnetic material, magnetic circuits.
PHY 207: Thermodynamics (2 C)
Basic concepts of thermodynamics; Measurement of temperature; The
First Law of Thermodynamics; Entropy and the Second Law of
Thermodynamics; Consequences of the first and second laws; Carnot
engine; Combined first and second laws; Helmholtz and Gibb
functions, Enthalpy, The thermodynamic potentials; phase transitions;
Production of low temperatures and the Third Law of
thermodynamics.
PHY 209: Optics I (2 C)
Nature of light: the corpuscular model, the wave model, light as an
electromagnetic wave; Reflection and refraction of light:
electromagnetic waves at the interface separating two media,
idealisation of waves as light rays, Fermat’s principle; Perception of
light: human vision, colour vision; Polarisation of light: simple states
of polarised light, principles of producing linearly polarised light,
wave plates.
PHY 220: Physics Laboratory I (2 C)
Introduction to laboratory-I: Measurement; Introduction to
laboratory-I: Error Analysis; To investigate the dependence of the
period of a pendulum on length, amplitude and mass; Oscillations of a
spring mass system and a torsional pendulum; A study of energy and
momentum conservation principles; A study of coupled oscillations;
Relations between wavelength and frequency of stationary waves;
Young’s modulus for a material by bending of beams; Measurement
of low resistance using Carey Foster’s Bridge; Variation of thermo
E.M.F. with temperature; Frequency response of A.C. series circuits;
Zener diode characteristics and zener as a voltage regulator; A study
of transistor characteristic.

-- 179 of 377 --

180
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
MTH 211: Set Theory and Abstract Algebra (3 C)
Set: Binary operations, mapping, equivalence relations integers:
Fundamental theorem of arithmetic, congruence equations, Euler’s
function (n) Group Theory: Definition and examples of groups.
Subgroups, coset decomposition, Lagrange’s theorem. Cyclic groups.
Homonorphisims, isomorphism. Odd and even permutations.
Cayley’s theorem. Rings: Definition and examples of rings.
Commutative rings. Integral domain. Order, well-ordering principles.
Mathematical induction.
MTH 232: Elementary Differential Equation (3 C)
Introduction, equation of first order and first degree, separable
equations, homogeneous equations, exact equations, linear equations,
Bernoulli’s and Riccati equations. Applications to mechanics and
electricity. Orthogonal and oblique trajectories. Second order
equations with constant coefficients.
EDU 321: Psychology of Learning (2 C)
Definitions of psychology & learning; Theories of learning and the
theorists levels of motivation and implication for education; Memory
and forgetting, Types of memory, Method of improving memory,
Types of forgetting, Factors influencing forgetting, Implication for
education; Cognitive theory of learning; Reinforcement and
punishment and classroom application; Behaviourism, Contributions
of behavioral psychologists and classroom application; Transfer of
learning and classroom application, S – R theory of Thorndike –
Skinner, Meaning of S – R, The laws of readiness, Exercise and
effect; Punishment; Classroom application.
EDU 332: Educational Technology (2 C)
Definition of Instructional Technology, its Philosophy, Terminology,
Roles of Instructional Technology in the Learning Process, The
experience, Theory of Learning, learning and Communication in the
classroom, Learning has changed behaviour, The teacher’s
responsibilities, Selecting and using materials and media in
Instruction, Visual aids, Non-projected aids, Projectors, Projected
aids, Audio-visual aids, Creating Instructional Materials, Duplicators,
Equipment Operation, projection, Recording.

-- 180 of 377 --

181
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
EDU 323: Basic Research Methods in Education (2 C)
Meaning of Research; Scientific method of research, Selection of the
topic, Subjects etc for research; Purposes of research studies;
Guidelines in selection of topics, Preparing a research proposal,
Statement of the problem; Determination of data required;
Hypothetical conclusions and implication, Collecting information and
data; Observation and interview methods, Basic consideration in data
collection; The correspondence method; Analysis and interpretation
of Data; Basic statistical concept and Their Computation, Designs of
Experiments:- Basic types of errors; Simple Randomised Design,
Random – Replications Design; Groups- within – Treatment design;
Treatment of extra venous variables, Scaling Problems and
Techniques:- Rating Scales, Rank-order Scales, etc, Determination of
Scale Value.
EDU 314: Comparative Education (2 C)
Scope and meaning of Education, Examination of Significant
Differences and Similarities in Education Policy and Practices in
Selected Societies, Problems of Educational Development in
Developing Countries.
EDU 335: Teaching Practice I (3 C)
Students learn through practical experience how to teach particular
subjects, manage a classroom and the functions of a good teacher.
SED 305– Practicum in Science Teaching (3CU)
Students are expected to carry out activities in their respective areas
of specialisation as stated below.
Agric Practicum
Activities in Farm tools & Machinery, Methods in Farm Surveying,
Management of Farm Animals, Construction of Egg candler &
candling, Soil and Soil experiments, Rocks & Rock Formation,
Floriculture.
Biology
Activities on Microscopy cell division, Construction of quaerat,
Ecosystem, Improvisation of necessary instrument in Biology e.g.

-- 181 of 377 --

182
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Rain gauge, ACC paper wind vane etc. Activities on genetical
principles, Construction of Herbarium, Staffing of Animals, Skeleton
Physics
Activities on Graphs & Data handling, Activity on measurement of
Mass, Experiment on Mechanics, Experiments on light.
Chemistry
Activities on separation Techniques, Preparation of standard
solutions, Activities on volumetric Analysis, Qualitative analysis,
Test for gases activities on Identification of rations.
Integrated Science
Activities on Microscopy, Improvisation of an ecosystem, Activities
on Energy transformation, Simple machines, Thermo dynamics, Test
for gases, Separation techniques, Activities on Volumetric Analysis.
Mathematics
Improvisation of Abacus Counters
Using improvised materials to teach shapes such as triangle, circle
square etc.
Using simple games to teach elementary mathematics.
Computer Science
Activities on computer games, Improvising computer, Activities on
computer virus.
Note: The activities for each of the sciences listed above will include
post teaching practice discussion and remediation.
EDU 336: Post Teaching Practice Evaluation/Remediation
(2C)
The student is required to write a comprehensive report on his/her
experiences in practical implementation of teaching/learning
strategies in the classroom as applied to the subject area. The report
should include:

-- 182 of 377 --

183
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
• Challenges encountered during the teaching practice
• The lesson notes used during the teaching practice
• Assessment questions as well as the marking guides used
• Assessment of teaching practice supervision by the supervisor,
and
• Suggestions for improvement.
The report should be submitted by the student to the Dean through the
Study Centre Director for:
• Evaluation
• Feedback, and
• Remediation.
The result of the overall processes should be communicated to the
student from the Dean through the Study Centre Director.
PHY 301: Classical Mechanics II (3 Units)
Motion under central conservative forces; scattering; Motion in non –
inertial frames of reference, Generalised coordinates, Constraints, The
Lagrange formulation of mechanics, Hamilton’s formulation of
mechanics.
PHY 302: Modern Physics II (3 C)
Properties of atomic orbits; Optical spectra of the hydrogen atom;
Spontaneous and simulated emissions (lasers and masers); Spectra of
alkali metals; Quantum effects; Vector model of the atom: j-j
couplings. Bohr magneton; Space quantisation; Stern Gerlach
experiment; Zeeman Effect; Hyperfine structure and isotopes and
nuclear spin; Nuclear spin number; Molecular spectroscopy: rotation,
vibration-rotation, electronic. X-ray spectra; Microwave methods;
Resonance phenomena, ESR, NMR; Optical pumping and Mossbauer
scattering.

-- 183 of 377 --

184
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
PHY 303: Special Relativity (3 C)
Einstein’s postulates and Lorentz transformation; Consequences of
transformations of momentum and energy; Experimental verification
of special relativity; Velocity addition theorem and Doppler effect;
Electromagnetic 4-vector; Transformation of E and H; Lorentz force.
PHY 306: Optics (2 Units)
Interference by division of wave front; Interference by division of
amplitude; Interferometry; Fresnel diffraction; Fraunhofer diffraction;
Diffraction and resolution.
PHY 305: Energy (2 C)
Energy and power: principles, demands and outlook, transformation
of energy and its costs; Thermal pollution; Electrical energy from
fossil fuels; Hydro-electric generation: principles and problems,
capacity, storage, reserves, efficiency and environmental effects;
Electrical energy nuclear reactors: energy in future breeder reactors,
fusion power, solar power, geothermal power, tidal power, etc.
PHY 307: Solid State Physics I (3 C)
Crystal structure of solids; Crystal binding; X-ray diffraction in
crystals, applications; Thermal properties of the crystal lattice; Elastic
properties; Lattice vibrations: phonons; Free-electron theory of
metals; Motion of electrons in periodic fields; Hall effect; Energy
bands; Semiconductors; Superconductivity.
PHY 308: Electronics I (3 C)
Amplifiers: Classification of amplifiers, equivalent circuit of
transistor, operating point and bias stability, small signal amplifier, r-f
amplifiers; Oscillators: negative feedback, positive feedback, LC
oscillators, RC oscillators; Power supply: power source, dc power
unit, performance of rectifier, filter circuits, regulation of output
voltage; Linear integrated circuits: the Op Amp and its applications,
amplifiers and voltage regulators.
PHY 309: Quantum Mechanics I (3 C)
Experimental basis of quantum theory: blackbody radiation, and
Planck’s hypothesis, electron and quanta; Operators; Postulates of

-- 184 of 377 --

185
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Quantum Mechanics; Correspondence principle, Schrodinger
equations and their solutions; Applications: one-dimensional box
problem, potential well and bound states, potential barrier, the tunnel
effect; The harmonic oscillator.
PHY 364: Electronics II (3 C)
Multistage amplifiers; Power amplifiers; Classes A, B, C, Active and
Passive Filters; Power systems: Use of transistors in stabilised power
supplies; Field effect transistors.
PHY 311: Kinetic Theory and Statistical Mechanics (2 Units)
Ideal gases; Transport phenomena; Brownian motion; Real gases;
Basic concepts of Statistical Mechanics; the partition function,
entropy and probability, equipartition of energy, classical statistics,
quantum statistics.
EDU 421: Guidance and Counselling (2 C)
Meaning, Purpose and Development of Guidance and Counselling,
The services of a School Guidance programme; - The individual
appraisal service. Information needed for the analysis of the
individual, collection of information (test, inventories etc).
Organising recording and filing information; Use of recorded
information; Information service:- Vocational Education and Personal
Social Information, Methods of obtaining and Disseminating
information; The Counselling Service:- Nature, Purpose and Theories
of Counselling; The Counsellor and the counseling process, The
Placement Service in School and out-of School placement, follow up
studies; Purposes of and procedures in follow-up studies, Problems in
Guidance and counseling:- Values and attitude orientation, Guidance
as Classroom or Specialist Centered, Guidance as Direction or
Developments, Problems of Social change, Relation with other
Personnel and Services:-Counsellor and School Administration,
Relationship with teachers, Extra – School Relationship, Working
with Parents and Making Referential, Guidance:- Organisation and
Implementation, Preparation of Occupational, Information,
Practicum; Preparing and using Cumulative records.

-- 185 of 377 --

186
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
EDU 412: Educational Management (2 C)
Define educational administration, Educational law and the control of
Education in Nigeria, The organisation of the Ministry of Education
and the function of boards of education, the Nigerian Educational
system, the school and the community, Bureaucracy and decision
making in educational administration, human relations in Educational
administration, Educational Leadership, the role of the principal, staff
personnel administration, supervision of instruction, Admission
Procedures, Student’s records and reports, Student’s discipline and
welfare, Student organisation and participation in School
Administration, Principle of planning, School finance and accounting
system, School routine and time table, The school plant and facilities,
Examinations and the problems of academic standards, Evaluation
and school inspection.
EDU 423: Measurement and Evaluation (2 C)
Definition and purpose of Measurement and Evaluation, Importance
of Tests in Education; Validity of Tests in Educational Achievement;
Functions of classroom tests, Criteria for effective testing, Problems
of tests construction; Measurement of educational outcomes,
Behavioral cognitive and non-cognitive of education, Pupils
characteristics to be measured, Types of tests, Essay and objective
type tests advantages and disadvantages of each, when to use each of
them. Tests Administration and Scoring, Judging the Quality of a
Classroom test, Estimating, Interpreting and improving reliability of
test, Validity of Classroom Tests, Problem of Marking Tests, and
Quality Control in Marking System.
EDU 420: Research Project (4 C)
An application of the research methods and data processing course to
a field experience under the guidance of a selected facilitator.
EDU 426: Special Education (2 C)
Concept of special education, its definition and origins. Examination
of the terms integration, inclusion, and individualised education
programme within the context of special education. Giftedness, its
meaning, and causes as well as case studies of the gifted. The
education of gifted children. Hearing impairment and educational

-- 186 of 377 --

187
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
considerations for the deaf. Visual impairment, its causes and history.
Educational considerations for visually impaired children.
EDU 435: Teaching Practice II (3 C)
A minimum of six weeks supervised exposure to classroom teaching
on field experience to demonstrate the degree of proficiency in
applying some of the basic theories of instruction.
PHY 402: Nuclear Physics (3 C)
Basic nuclear concepts: structure, size, nuclear masses, nuclear
forces; Nuclear scattering: nuclear models; Energy spectra of alpha
and beta decays; Fermi theory of -decay; Emission; internal
conversion; Nuclear reactions; Interaction of nuclear radiation with
matter.
PHY 405: Electronics III (3 C)
Number systems and codes; Fundamentals of Boolean algebra and
flip-flops; Registers counters, memory circuits and analogue/digital
converters; Electronic instruments.
PHY 407: Solid State Physics II Pre-Requisite: PHY
307 (2 C)
Dielectric properties; Magnetism: paramagnetism and diamagnetism,
ferromagnetism and anti-ferromagnetism. Magnetic resonance;
Imperfections in solids.
PHY 409: Elementary Particle Physics (2 C)
Elementary particles: types; Conservation laws; Particle
classification. Strong, electro-magnetic and weak interactions;
Particle resonances; Symmetry models: SU (2), SU (3), etc.
PHY 455: Lower Atmospheric Physics (3 C)
Atmospheric composition and structure. Thermodynamics of water
and air. Hydrostatic stability and convection; tephigrams; gradient
winds. Radiation in the atmosphere: absorption, scattering; pressure /
collision; Doppler; Radiometric quantities, definitions and
measurements; Radioactive transfer equation.

-- 187 of 377 --

188
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
PHY 457: Environmental Physics (3 Units)
Satellite orbits; remote sensing; processing and resolution of satellite
images; applications of remote sensing data; structure and
composition of earth’s atmosphere; energy balance; greenhouse effect
and global warming; atmospheric motion, pressure gradient and
thermal gradient winds; global weather and climate patterns;
environmental modeling; environmental risk – benefit analysis.
B.Sc. (Ed) Chemistry
To be eligible for the award of B.Sc. (Ed.) Chemistry, a student must
have passed a minimum of 143 and 108 credit units for the four year
and three year degree programmes respectively. That is:
 For a four year degree course, a minimum of 143 units will be
required for graduation.
 For a direct three year course, a minimum of 108 units will be
required for graduation.
 At the commencement of the programme, each student is
furnished with the information specifying the requirements for
the award of the degree.
 Students must pass all core and GST courses.
Table 10 B.Sc. (Ed) Chemistry
(a) Year I First Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Unit(s) Status
GST 101 Use of English and Communication
Skills II
2 C
GST107 The Good Study Guide 2 C
EDU111 Foundations of Education 2 C
CHM101 Introductory Inorganic Chemistry 2 C
CHM103 Introductory Physical Chemistry 2 C
CHM191 Introductory Practical Chemistry 1 C
BIO191 General Practical Biology I 2 C
BIO101 General Biology 1 2 C
MTH101 General Mathematics 3 C
Total Credit Units 18

-- 188 of 377 --

189
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
(b) Second Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Unit(s) Status
GST 102 Use of English and Communication
Skills II
2 C
EDU 112 Professionalism in Teaching 2 C
EDU 114 History of Education in Nigeria 2 C
CHM 102 Introductory Organic Chemistry 2 C
BIO 102 General Biology II 2 C
BIO 192 General Practical Biology II 2 C
CHM 192 Introductory Practical Chemistry II 2 C
MTH104 Elementary Mathematics II 3 C
Total Credit Units 17
( c ) Year II First Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Unit(s) Status
GST 201 Nigerian Peoples and Culture 2 C
EDU 231 Curriculum Theory and Practice 2 C
EDU 233 General Teaching Methods 2 C
CHM 205 Inorganic Chemistry II 2 C
CHM 201 Physical Chemistry II 2 C
CHM 204 Structure and Bonding 2 C
MTH 281 Mathematical Method 2 C
BIO 201 Genetic I 2 C
BIO 203 General Physiology 1 2 C
Total Credit Units 18
( d) Second Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Unit(S) Status
GST 203 Introduction to Philosophy and Logic 2 C
GST202 Peace Studies and Conflict
Resolution
2 C
EDU 212 Sociology of Education 2 C
EDU 252 Chemistry Methods 2 C
EDU 214 Philosophy of Education 2 C

-- 189 of 377 --

190
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
CHM 202 Analytical Chemistry I 2 C
CHM 203 Organic Chemistry II 2 C
Total Credit Units 14
(e ) Year III First Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Unit(s) Status
GST301 Entrepreneurship Studies 2 C
EDU 335 Teaching Practice I 3 C
EDU 321 Psychology of Learning 2 C
EDU 323 Basic Research Methods In
Education
3 C
CHM 301 Physical Chemistry III 3 C
CHM 307 Atomic and Molecular Structure and
Symmetry 3 C
CHM 315 Carbohydrate Chemistry 2 C
CHM 302 Polymer Chemistry 2 C
CHM 305 Organic Chemistry III 3 C
Total Credit Units 23
( f ) Second Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit(s)
Status
EDU302 ICT in Education 2 C
EDU 332 Educational Technology 2 C
EDU 314 Comparative Education 2 C
EDU336 Post Teaching Practice Evaluation 3 C
SED 305 Practicum in Science Teaching 3 C
CHM 303 Inorganic Chemistry III 3 C
CHM 309 Organic Spectroscopy 2 C
CHM 306 Instrumental Methods of Analysis 2 C
Total Credit Units 19

-- 190 of 377 --

191
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
( g )Year IV First Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit(s)
Status
EDU 421 Guidance and Counselling 2 C
EDU 423 Measurement and Evaluation 2 C
EDU 435 Teaching Practice II 3 C
CHM 407 Reaction Kinetics 3 C
CHM 413 Analytical Chemistry II 2 C
CHM 423 Coordination Chemistry 3 C
CHM 409 Electrochemistry 2 C
CHM421 Heterocyclic Chemistry 2 C
Total Credit Units 19
( h ) Second Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit(s)
Status
EDU412 Principles of Educational
Management 2 C
EDU420 Research Project 4 C
EDU426 Special Education 2 C
CHM406 Nuclear And Radio- Chemistry 2 C
CHM416 Organic Synthesis 2 C
CHM417 Industrial Chemistry Process II 3 C
Total Credit Units 15
Course Content Specification
GST 101: Use of English and Communication Skills I (2C)
Listening enabling skills, listening and comprehending
comprehension, note taking and information retrieval. Including data,
figures, diagrams and charts. Listening for main idea, interpretation
and critical evaluation. Effective reading. Skimming and scanning.
Reading and comprehension at various speed levels. Vocabulary
development in various academic contexts. Reading diverse texts in
narratives and expository. Reading and comprehension passages with

-- 191 of 377 --

192
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
tables, scientific texts. Reading for interpretation and critical
evaluation.
GST 102: Use Of English and Communication Skills II (2C)
Writing paragraphs: Topic sentence and coherence. Development of
paragraphs: illustration, Description, cause and effect including
definitions. Formal letters; essential parts and stylistic forms,
complaints and requests; jobs, ordering goods, letters to government
and other organisations. Writing reports; reporting event,
experiments. Writing summaries: techniques of summarising letters
and sounds in English, vowels and consonants. Interviews, seminar
presentation, public speech making, articles, concord and sentences
including tenses. Gerund, participles, active, passive and the
infinitive. Modal auxiliaries.
GST 103: Study Skills (0 C)
Skills for studying, how to study, use of library, preparing for
examinations, revising for examinations, studying for different kinds
of examination, essay-type examination, studying for multiple choice
and short answer examinations.
GST 105: History and Philosophy of Science (2 C)
Nature of science, scientific methods and theories, law of nature,
history of science, lost sciences of African, science, technology and
inventions, nature and scope of philosophy in science, man, nature
and his origin, man, environment and resources, Great Nigerian
Scientists.
GST 107: The Good Study Guide (2 C)
Getting Started: How to use the book, why read about study skills,
getting yourself organized, what is studying all about, reading and
note-taking: introduction, reactions to reading, your reading strategy,
memory, taking notes, conclusion. Other ways of studying:
Introduction, learning in groups, talks and lectures, learning from T.V
and Radio broadcasts, other study media. Working with numbers:
Getting to know numbers, describing the world, describing the tables,
describing with diagrams and graphs, what is good writing? The
importance of writing, what does an essay look like, what is a good

-- 192 of 377 --

193
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
essay, conclusion. How to write essays: Introduction, the craft of
writing, the advantages of treating essay writing as a craft, making
your essay flow, making a convincing case, the experience of writing.
Preparing for examination.
EDU 1O5: Introduction to Foundations of Education (2C)
Philosophical and psychological perspective, philosophy of
education, meaning and relevance, equality of educational
opportunity, psychology of education, introduction to learning
theories, readiness to learning, motivation and its relation to learning,
transfer of learning, historical and sociological perspective, concept
and nature of education, types of education, the growth of education
in Nigeria, educational trends in Nigeria, innovations in education,
the status of teachers in Nigeria, education and society, social class
and educational opportunity, factors that influence education.
EDU 112: Professionalism in Teaching (2 C)
Concepts and issues in teaching, concepts of teaching and
professionalism, history of teaching in Nigeria, professional growth
of teachers, educating the educators, professional studies programs
for teachers, the teacher and the child, why teachers should care, the
making of ideal teacher, qualities of an ideal teacher, the role of the
teacher, the Nigerian Union of Teachers (NUT), the role of Parent
Teachers Association (PTA), the subject teachers association, the
status of teachers in Nigeria, strategies for making teaching a
profession
EDU 114: History of Education in Nigeria (2 C)
Nigeria traditional education, higher education in traditional society,
Islamic education in Nigeria, the early missionaries and the
development of education in Nigeria, colonial government
involvement in Nigeria Education 1872 – 1882, Education
Ordinances 1887 – 1916, the impact of Phelps – Stokes Commission
on Education in Northern Nigeria, Secondary Education from 1859 –
1929, Higher Education, The National Curriculum Conference and
the National Policy on Education.

-- 193 of 377 --

194
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
CHM 101: Introduction to Inorganic Chemistry (2 C)
Hypothesis, theory and law with appropriate illustrations, Nature of
matter – 3 states of matter, Atomic structure, electronic energy levels
and orbital, Periodic classification of elements and its relationship to
their electronic configurations, Chemical bonding, Survey of
properties and trends in groups I, II, IV, VI and transition metal,
CHM 103: Introduction to Physical Chemistry (2 C)
Mole concepts and calculations based on it, methods of expressing
concentrations, Chemical Kinetics and equilibrium, and related
calculations, Important applications of equilibrium – pH, solubility
products and solubility of ionic solids, Thermo chemistry and simple
calculations based on Hess’s law, Electrochemistry and working of
various cells, Brief mentions of corrosion; chemical thermodynamics;
G = H - TS.
CHM 102: Introductory Organic Chemistry (2 C)
Simple reactions of hydrocarbons, alcohols and acids, petroleum
chemistry, oils and fats. Hydrogenation of oils. Polymer and
biological important molecules.
CHM 191: Introduction to Practical Chemistry (2 C)
Practicals based of CHM 121 and 111: Cations and anions –
identification, Acid base titrations, Redox reactions and
determinations
BIO 101: General Biology I (2 Units)
Characteristics of living things; cell as the basic unit of living things,
cell structure, organization, cellular organelles, tissues, organs and
systems. Classification of living things, general reproduction and
concept of inter-relationships of organism. Heredity and evolution.
Elements of ecology (introduction) and habitats.
BIO 102 : General Biology II (2 Units)
Systematic studies of diversity of life including monera, Protista,
plants (Algae, Fungi, Bryophytes, Pteridophytes, Gymnosperms and
angiosperms) and animals (Protozoa, Platyhelminthes, Annelids,
Arthropods, Fishes, Amphibians, Reptiles, Birds and Mammals)

-- 194 of 377 --

195
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
based on similarities and differences in external morphology.
Taxonomic divisions of plant and animal kingdoms. Ecological
adaptations of these forms.
BIO 191: General Biology Practical I (2 Units)
What practical work in biology involves. Laboratory organisation.
Handling common laboratory equipment. Microscopic handling and
maintenance. Making microscopic measurements. Procuring animal
materials for practicals. Killing, preserving and maintaining animal
materials. Procuring plant materials. External features of plants
(differences and similarities). Preparation of temporary slides.
Preparation of stains and reagents. Techniques for microbial culture
and grain staining. Setting up demonstration for physiological
processes in plants. Setting up apparatus for demonstrating
physiological processes in animals. Preparation required for
dissection.
BIO 192: General Biology Laboratory II (2 Units)
Observation and description of the morphological and diagnostic
features as well as the differences among the different phyla of the
plant, animal, archebacteria, eubacteria, fungi and protista kingdoms.
Identification of the taxonomic hierarchy of the members of the above
groups. Study of the structure and functions of their parts and habitats
specifications
BIO 207: Lower Invertebrates (2 Units)
Systematic approach to invertebrates morphology and levels of
organisation. Classification of Protozoa, Rhizopoda, Apicomplexa,
Sarcomastigophora, Ciliophora, Parazoa; Porifera. Metazoan;
Cnidarian, Platyhelminthes, Nematode, Annelida, Mollusca,
Arthropoda, Echinodermata with emphasis on the differences and
similarities among the groups; adaptive features to mode of life and
their economic importance.
GST 201: Nigerian Peoples and Culture (2 C)
Nigerian history, culture and arts in pre-colonial times; Nigerians’
perception of their world; culture areas of Nigeria and their
characteristics; evolution of Nigeria as a political unit;

-- 195 of 377 --

196
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
indigene/settler phenomenon; concepts of trade; economic self-
reliance; social justice; individual and national development; norms
and values; negative attitudes and conducts (cultism and related
vices); re-orientation of moral and national values; moral obligations
of citizens; environmental problems.
GST 202: Philosophy and Logic (2 C)
Fundamentals of logic and critical thinking; types of discourse; nature
of arguments; validity and soundness; techniques for evaluating
arguments; distinction between inductive and deductive inferences;
etc. Illustrations from familiar texts, including literature materials,
novels, law reports and newspaper publications
EDU 231: Curriculum Theory and Practice (2 C)
History of Curriculum Development in Nigeria: The importance of
curriculum, Curriculum Development and/or Improvement in a
developing country like Nigeria, Participants in Curriculum
Planning:- Levels of Planning, Approaches to Planning, Curriculum
Decisions:- Different Stages of Curriculum Decision, The 1969
National Curriculum Conference as a Case Study, Force affecting
Curriculum Decisions, Aims and Objectives of Nigeria Education,
Selection of Learning Experience:- Criteria for Selection, Programme
of Studies, Programme of Activities, Programme of Guidance,
Organisation of Learning Experience:- Traditional Organisation of
Curriculum, New Dimension in Organisation. Evaluation:- Evaluation
of Educational Programmes, Formative Evaluation (Action
Research), Summative Evaluation, Evaluation of the Achievement of
the Individual in the Programme:- Guidance – oriented Evaluation,
Selection – oriented Evaluation
EDU 212: Sociology of Education (2 C)
Definition of Sociology, Education and Pedagogy from Sociological
Perspective, Education and Society, Theory of Knowledge, Principles
of the Sociology of Knowledge, Socialisation:- Culture and
Personality, Education and Social Frame Work:- The Family and
Education, Education and Social Stratification – the Nigeria Elites,
Education and Social Values, Moral Education in Changing Society;
Education, Social Justice and the Teacher, Equality in Education,

-- 196 of 377 --

197
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Freedom in Education. The Social Functions of Education –
Education and Social Change, Education and Social Economic
Development, The Political function of Education, The Sociology of
Teaching:- The Teacher and his Role; The Reluctant Learner, The
Teacher in the Classroom, Social Relations in the School.
EDU 233: General Teaching Methods (2 C)
The Teacher and the Child, How children learn, Professional attitudes
and understanding of learners, The aims of the Teaching, The Stages
In Lesson Preparation:- The Syllabus, The Scheme of work, Lesson
Notes; Steps in preparation of notes, The problem of time –table.
General Teaching Methods:- Induction Method, Deduction Method,
Induction and Deduction Methods, The Lecture Method, Dramatic
Method, Questioning and Problem Methods, The Project Methods,
Activities in the Lesson, The Art of Classroom Management:-
Qualities of a good teacher, Some common bad habits to avoid,
Dealing with the problem of discipline in class. Questions and
Questioning, Students Natural Curiosity and Enquiry, Aims in
Questing, Questions in Classroom: The teacher’s questions, the
pupil’s questions, Guidelines for questioning. Testing and
Examinations, the purpose of testing, what to test, How and when to
test, Characteristics of a good test, types of tests, marks and
Assignments, Purpose of marking and assignments, Giving and
marking assignments, Awarding and assigning marks and grades,
methods of Study, Use of test book, Art of Note-Making,
Organisation of work, Revision and review of work, Physical
environment of the classroom, Preparation for examination. Use of
Audio-Visual Aids, Importance of Audio-visual in teaching, Types of
Audio-visual Aids and their uses.
EDU 204: Philosophy of Education (2 C)
Explaining concepts of education, (Aims: - goals, objectives, end,
means); Philosophy and philosophers; Curriculum: The nature of
education in Nigeria (metaphysics) – formal and informal education,
auxiliary education, Liberal and vocational education. Knowledge and
education in Nigeria – (Epistemology) Definitions of knowledge,
Types of knowledge; Knowledge by divine revelation, By institution
Prior knowledge, Posteriori knowledge, Need for knowledge in

-- 197 of 377 --

198
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
modern Nigeria morality and education (axiology) Define concepts of
morality and education, Determinants of good education, Logic and
education, Inductive and Deductive methods of teaching; Logic and
curriculum planning, Logic and School Administration; Discipline;
Freedom, Determination and Free will.
EDU 252: Chemistry Methods (2 C)
Definition of Science, Myths and Dogmas about Science Education,
The aims and historical Context of Science, The Challenge of Science
Teaching, The Social Dimension of Science and Barriers to Effective
Communication in Teaching, Application of some Teaching Methods,
lesson Notes and its Preparation, Content, The use of Chemistry
Laboratory, Laboratory , Laboratory Organisation and management,
Teaching Science in the face of Scarcity of Chemicals/ Equipment,
The language of science and science Teaching, Learning Theories,
Piaget’s’ Theory and Application of Learning, Theories of Science
Teaching.
CHM 202: Analytical Chemistry I (3 C)
Theory of errors, statistical treatment of data; Theory of sampling,
chemistry methods of analysis including volumetric (acid base,,
oxidation – reduction, precipitation and compleximetry);
Physicochemical methods (Optical methods of analysis – UV/V),
separation methods. PH notation and buffer solutions. Gravimenty
solubility product and its application to separation methods of metals.
CHM 201 Physical Chemistry II (3 C)
Kinetic theory of gases, behaviour of real gases; the laws of
thermodynamic entropy and free energy, reactions and phrase
equilibrium; reaction rate laws for gases where the concentration of
the reactions are the same. Mechanism and theories of animalcular
reactions.
CHM 204: Structure and Bonding (3 C)
Idea of quantum states. Orbital shape and energy, simple valence
theory. Electron repulsion theory; atomic spectra. The structure and
chemistry of some representative main group element compounds.

-- 198 of 377 --

199
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
CHM 203: Organic Chemistry II (3 C)
Factors affecting structure and physical properties of organic
compounds; factors affecting availability of electrons, stereo-
chemistry; energy of activation and free radical substitution reactions
in alkenes. Functional group chemistry. Electrophillic and
nucleophillic substitution reactions. Aromaticity. Various types of
organic reactions; e.g. addition, free radical, elimination and
substitution reactions.
BIO 201: Genetics 1 (2 C)
Hereditable and non-hereditable characteristics. Probability and tests
of goodness of fit. Quantitative inheritance, variation in genome
structure, introduction to population – genetics. Physical and
chemical nature of genetic materials. Protein synthesis.
BIO 203: General Physiology 1 (2 C)
Physical and chemical processes in animal and plant physiology.
Basic elements of respiratory, photosynthesis, transportation or
circulation, reproduction, germination, growth hormones and
enzymology.
BIO 207: Lower Invertebrates (2 C)
Systematic approach to invertebrates morphology and levels of
organization. Classification of Protozoa, Rhizopoda, Apicomplexa,
Sarcomastigophora, Ciliophora, Parazoa; Porifera. Metazoan;
Cnidaria, Platyhelminthes, Nematode, Annelida, Mollusca,
Arthropoda, Echinodermata with emphasis on the differences and
similarities among the groups; adaptive features to mode of life and
their economic importance.
BIO 203: General Physiology I (2 C)
Physical and chemical processes in animals and plants; diffusion,
osmotic pressure and osmolarity. Water potential, turgor, plasmolysis,
Gibbs-Donan relationship. Gas exchange, partial pressures (Tension),
Hydrogen-ion concentration (Ph). Henderson Hasselbach equation,
buffers in physiology. Nutrition; photo-autotrophism, heterotrophism
(essential requirements of each), Respiration and photosynthesis; RQ

-- 199 of 377 --

200
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
and QIO in relation to metabolism, photosynthesis, oxygen and
carbon dioxide exchange.
BIO 204: Biological Techniques (2 C)
The course is geared towards introducing students to scientific
methods using topics to illustrate ways and means of Biological
research. Types of microscopes and their uses. Preparation of
microscopic slides. Examination of materials. Dissection guides.
Microtomy and hand sectioning. Photometry, Colorimetry.
Chromatography. Conductometry. The course will also introduce
students to what is research and the techniques of writing scientific
reports through developing critical thinking and testing hypotheses,
evaluating original research papers and expressing ideas.
EDU 321: Psychology of Learning (2 C)
Definitions of psychology & learning; Theories of learning and the
theorists levels of motivation and implication for education; Memory
and forgetting, Types of memory, Method of improving memory,
Types of forgetting, Factors influencing forgetting, Implication for
education; Cognitive theory of learning; Reinforcement and
punishment and classroom application; Behaviourism, Contributions
of behavioral psychologists and classroom application; Transfer of
learning and classroom application, S – R theory of Thorndike –
skinner, Meaning of S – R, The Laws of readiness, Exercise and
effect; Punishment; Classroom application
EDU 332: Educational Technology (2 C)
Definition of Instructional Technology, its Philosophy, Terminology,
Roles of Instructional Technology in the Learning Process, The
experience, Theory of Learning, learning and Communication in the
classroom, Learning has changed behaviour, The teacher’s
responsibilities, Selecting and using materials and media in
Instructional, Visual aids, Non-projected aids, Projectors, Projected
aids, Audio-visual aids, Creating Instructional Materials, Duplicators,
Equipment Operation, projection, Recording.

-- 200 of 377 --

201
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
EDU 323: Basic Research Methods in Education (2 C)
Meaning of Research; Scientific method of research, Selection of the
topic, Subjects etc for research; Purposes of research studies;
Guidelines in selection of topics, Preparing a research proposal,
Statement of the problem; Determination of data required;
Hypothetical conclusions and implication, Collecting information and
data; Observation and interview methods, Basic consideration in data
collection; The correspondence method; Analysis and interpretation
of Data; Basic statistical concept and Their Computation, Designs of
Experiments:- Basic types of errors; Simple Randomized Design,
Random – Replications Design; Groups- within – Treatment design;
Treatment of extra venous variables, Scaling Problems and
Techniques:- Rating Scales, Rank-order Scales, etc, Determination of
Scale Value
EDU 314: Comparative Education (2 C)
Scope and meaning of Education, Examination of Significant
Differences and Similarities in Education Policy and Practices in
Selected Societies, Problems of Educational Development in
Developing Countries.
EDU 335: Teaching Practice I (3 C)
Students learn through practical experience how to teach particular
subjects, manage a classroom and the functions of a good teacher.
Note: The activities for each of the sciences listed above will include
post teaching practice discussion and remediation. (EDU336)
EDU 336: Post Teaching Practice Evaluation/Remediation
(2C)
The student is required to write a comprehensive report on his/her
experiences in practical implementation of teaching/learning
strategies in the classroom as applied to the subject area. The report
should include:
• Challenges encountered during the teaching practice
• The lesson notes used during the teaching practice
• Assessment questions as well as the marking guides used

-- 201 of 377 --

202
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
• Assessment of teaching practice supervision by the supervisor,
and
• Suggestions for improvement.
The report should be submitted by the student to the Dean through the
Study Centre Director for:
• Evaluation
• Feedback, and
• Remediation.
The result of the overall processes should be communicated to the
student from the Dean through the Study Centre Director.
CHM 311: Physical Chemistry III (3 C)
Introduction to key thermodynamic functions and applications. First,
second and third laws of thermodynamics, internal energy of a
system: the Carnot heat engine; the concept of entropy and the criteria
for spontaneity and equilibrium for physical and social processes
including single and multiple comparison system. The concept of
reversibility and irreversibility, free energy derivations, Maxwell
relations, cribs functions. Equilibrium thermodynamic as (ideal
solutions and vapour fugacity concepts). Properties of electrolytes
(colligate properties and phrase rule. Introduction to statistical
thermodynamics
CHM 333: Inorganic Chemistry III (3 C)
The noble gases. Hydrogen, electronic structure and general
properties and comparative study of Group IA Group IIA elements.
Chemistry of Boron: Carbon and Silicon, nitrogen and phosphorous
oxygen and sulphur. The halogens, transition and elements. The
halogens, transition and element, separation of metals coordination
chemistry, Ligand and crystal field theories, Introduction to radio
chemistry , radio activity and the periodic table.
CHM 312: Atomic and Molecular Structure and Symmetry (3)
Schrödinger equation. Helium atom, ground and excited states, spin
and Pauli principles, hydrogen molecule, comparison of molecular

-- 202 of 377 --

203
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
orbital and Valence bond theory; concepts of resonance and
configuration of orbital for historic molecular, walsh rules.
Rotational, vibration bond length and angles brief mention of other
methods, atomic spectra, Russel Saunder’s coupling, orbital and spin
angular momentum. Use of symmetry in chemistry. Heat capacities
of solids.
CHM 316: Applied Spectroscopy (2 C)
Principles and applications of UV, IR, NMR and Mass spectroscopy
the determination and elucidation of structure of organic compounds.
CHM 311: Polymer Chemistry (2 C)
The nature of Polymer nomenclature. Outline of sources of raw
materials for polymers; Polymerisation process, condensation
polymerisation in details. Solubility and solution properties of
polymers. Structures and properties of polymers. Fibre forming
polymers. Definition of colloid and history of colloid development.
Types of colloids.Polymers, Proteins, Gels, Association
colloids, Detergency.
CHM 320: Industrial Chemical Technology I (2 C)
Heat transfer and Mass transfer processes. Unit operations.
Chemical technology equipment.
CHM 321: Organic Chemistry III (3 C)
Alcohols and their reactions. Ethers and Epoxide. Carboxylic acids
and their derivatives. Aldehydes and ketones. Carbanion I and B –
unsaturated compounds. Polyfunctional compounds. Heterocyclic
chemistry.
CHM 322: Instrumental Methods of Analysis (2 C)
Spectroscopic techniques, physicochemical optical; flame and X-ray
methods. Fluorence method, magnetic resourance and electron “spin
resonance. Referchemistry and interferometrty. florarimentry,
poargraphy calorimestry.

-- 203 of 377 --

204
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
BIO 305 : Molecular Biology (2C)
Genetics studies of microorganism, metabolic pathways, genes and
chromosomes, nucleic acids (RNA & DNA), replication,
transcription, gene expression and sequencing, protein synthesis,
genotype, genetic code.
EDU 421: Guidance And Counselling (2 C)
Meaning, Purpose and Development of Guidance and Counseling,
The services of a School Guidance programme; - The individual
appraisal service. Information needed for the analysis of the
individual, collection of information (test, inventories etc).
Organising recording and filing information; Use of recorded
information; Information service:- Vocational Education and Personal
Social Information, Methods of obtaining and Disseminating
information; The Counseling Service:- Nature, Purpose and Theories
of Counseling; The Counsellor and the counseling process, The
Placement Service in School and out-of School placement, follow up
studies; Purposes of and procedures in follow-up studies, Problems in
Guidance and counseling:- Values and attitude orientation, Guidance
as Classroom or Specialist Centered, Guidance as Direction or
Developments, Problems of Social change, Relation with other
Personnel and Services:-Counsellor and School Administration,
Relationship with teachers, Extra – School Relationship, Working
with Parents and Making Referential, Guidance:- Organisation and
Implementation, Preparation of Occupational, Information,
Practicum; Preparing and using Cumulative records.
EDU 412: Educational Management (2 C)
Define educational administration, Educational law and the control of
Education in Nigeria, The organisation of the Ministry of Education
and the function of boards of education, the Nigerian Educational
system, the school and the community, Bureaucracy and decision
making in educational administration, human relations in Educational
administration, Educational Leadership, the role of the principal, staff
personnel administration, supervision of instruction, Admission
Procedures, Student’s records and reports, Student’s discipline and
welfare, Students organisation and participation in School
Administration, Principle of planning, School finance and accounting

-- 204 of 377 --

205
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
system, School routine and time table, The school plant and facilities,
Examinations and the problems of academic standards, Evaluation
and school inspection.
EDU 423: Measurement and Evaluation (2 C)
Definition and purpose of Measurement and Evaluation, Importance
of Tests in Education; Validity of Tests in Educational Achievement;
Functions of classroom tests, Criteria for effective testing, Problems
of tests construction; Measurement of educational outcomes,
behavioral, cognitive and non-cognitive of education, Pupils
characteristics to be measured, Types of tests, Essay and objective
type tests advantages and disadvantages of each, when to use each of
them. Tests Administration and Scoring, Judging the Quality of a
Classroom test, Estimating, Interpreting and improving reliability of
test, Validity of Classroom Tests, Problem of Marking Tests, and
Quality Control in Marking System.
CHM 402: Theory of Molecular Spectroscopy (2 C)
Quantum theory of rotation and vibration. Theory of microwave, IR,
Raman, UV, Visible and NMR spectroscopy. General introduction to
electron spin resonance, Mossbauer effect, nuclear quarupole
resonance and other modern techniques.
EDU 420: Research Project (4 C)
An application of the research methods and data processing course to
a field experience under the guidance of a selected facilitator
EDU 426: Special Education (2 C)
Concept of special education, its definition and origins. Examination
of the terms integration, inclusion, and individualised education
programme within the context of special education. Giftedness, its
meaning, and causes as well as case studies of the gifted. The
education of gifted children. Hearing impairment and educational
considerations for the deaf. Visual impairment, its causes and history.
Educational considerations for visually impaired children.

-- 205 of 377 --

206
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
EDU 435: Teaching Practice II (3 C)
A minimum of six weeks supervised exposure to classroom teaching
on field experience to demonstrate the degree of proficiency in
applying some of the basic theories of instruction.
CHM 411: Reaction Kinetics (3 C)
Review of first, second and third order rate equations . Rate constants
, and equilibrium constant collision theory, transition state theory,
reaction coordinates. Unimoleculer reaction theory, bimolecular
reaction mechanism: Chain reaction mechanisms; catalysis and
heterogeneous reactions. Photochemical reactions mechanism.
CHM 413: Analytical Chemistry II (2 C)
Theory of error-significance round correlation tests. Potentiometer
and PH titrations. Conductometric methods ,electrolytic methods,
radiochemical methods. Chromatography Calorimetry.
CHM 414: Nuclear and Radiochemistry (2 C)
Natural radioactivity, fusion, fission, decay process, nature of
radiation. Nuclear models, energetic of nuclear reaction. Principles
and measurement of radioactivity. Applications of radioactivity.
Radiation Hazards.
CHM 421: Statistical Thermodynamics (3 C)
Pre-requisite-CHM301 Maxwell-Doltzmann statistics; calculation of
thermodynamic properties; partition functions; heat capacities;
entropy; equilibrium constants; use of spectroscopic data transition
state theory; quantum effects.
CHM 428: Polymer Chemistry II (2 C)
Polymerisation mechanisms; detailed treatment of addition
polymerisation. Stereospecific polymerisation. Copolymensation.
Phase systems for polymerisation. Industrially important
thermoplastic and thermosetting polymers: Polyurethanes. Rubber
elasticity. Mechanical properties of polymers. Analysis and testing
of polymers. Degradation of polymers.

-- 206 of 377 --

207
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
CHM 432: Coordination Chemistry (2 C)
Definition, Recognition and Applications of Coordination
compounds. Nomenclature, Coordination formula and Isomerism in
complexes. Stereochemistry of complex molecules; Theories of
structures and bonding. Physical methods of structural investigation.
Magnetic properties. Absorption and Vibrational spectra. The
spectrochemical series. The Nephelauxetic series and the Jahn-Teller
distortions. Stabilisation of unusual oxidation states by complex
formation. Thermodynamic stability of complex compounds, the
stability constant, the chelate effect. Preparation and reactions
complexes. Kinetics and Mechanisms.
BSc. (Ed) Integrated Science
Graduation Requirement
 The B.Sc (Ed) Integrated Science is structured to run for a
minimum of four years and maximum of eight years for
students starting at 100 level or minimum of three years and
maximum of six years for students entering at 200 level.
 To be eligible for the award of the B.Sc. (Ed) Hons. Integrated
Science, a student must have passed a minimum of 127 and 93
credit units for thefour year and three year degree programme
respectively.
Table 11: BSc. (Ed) Integrated Science
(a ) Year I First t Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit
(s)
Status
GST 101 Use of English and Communication
Skills I
2 C
GST 107 The Good Study Guide 2 C
EDU 111 Foundations of Education 2 C
PHY 111 Elementary Mechanics 2 C
PHY 191 Introductory Practical Physics I 2 C
BIO 101 General Biology I 2 C
CHM 101 Introductory Inorganic Chemistry 1 2 C
CIT 101 Computers in Society 2 C

-- 207 of 377 --

208
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Total 16
( b ) Second Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit
(s)
Status
GST 102 Use of English and Communication
Skills II
2 C
EDU 112 Professionalism in Teaching 2 C
EDU 114 History of Education in Nigeria 2 C
PHY 124 Geometrical and Waves Optics 2 C
PHY 192 Introductory Practical Physics II 2 C
PHY 132 Electricity, Magnetism and Modern
Physics 2 C
BIO 102 General Biology II 2 C
CHM 102 Introductory Organic Chemistry 2 C
MTH 142 Vectors and Geometry 2 C
Total Credit Units 18
(c) Year II First Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit
(s)
Status
GST 201 Nigerian Peoples and Culture 2 C
EDU 231 Curriculum Theory and Practice 2 C
EDU 233 General Teaching Methods 2 C
CHM 203 Organic Chemistry II 2 C
CHM 205 Inorganic Chemistry II 3 C
BIO 201 Genetic I 2 C
BIO 203 General Physiology I 2 C
Total 15

-- 208 of 377 --

209
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
( d ) Second Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit(s)
Status
GST 202 Fundamentals of Peace Studies and
Conflict Resolutions
2 C
GST 203 Introduction to Philosophy and
Logic
2 C
EDU 212 Sociology of Education 2 C
EDU 214 Philosophy of Education 2 C
EDU 254 Integrated Science Methods 2 C
PHY 202 Modern Physics 2 C
BIO 202 Introduction to Ecology 2 C
EPS 223 Entrepreneurship Education I
(Theory) 2 C
Total Credit Units 16
( e ) Year III First Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit (s)
Status
GST 301: Entrepreneurship Studies 2 C
EDU 321 Psychology of Learning 2 C
EDU 323 Basic Research Methods in
Education
2 C
EDU 335 Teaching Practice I 3 C
CHM 311 Analytical Chemistry I 3 C
CHM 342 Electrochemistry 2 C
BIO 301 Genetic II 3 C
Total Credit Units 17
( f ) Second Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit
(s )
Status
SED 305 Practicum in Science Teaching 2 C
EDU 332 Educational Technology 2 C
EDU 314 Comparative Education 2 C
EDU 336 Post Teaching Practice 2 C

-- 209 of 377 --

210
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Evaluation/Remediation
PHY 308 Electronics I 3 C
BIO 304 General Ecology 2 C
Total Credit Units 13
( g ) Year IV First Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit
(s)
Status
EDU 421 Guidance and Counselling 2 C
EDU 423 Measurement and Evaluation 2 C
EDU 435 Teaching Practice II 3 C
PHY 302 Modern Physics II 3 C
CHM 314 Environmental Chemistry 2 C
BIO 305 Molecular Biology 3 C
Total Credit Units 15
( h ) Second Semester
Course Code Course Title Credit Unit
(s)
S
EDU 412 Principles of Educational Management 2 C
EDU 420 Research Project 4 C
EDU426 Special Education 2 C
PHY 311 Kinetic Theory and Statistical Mechanics 2 C
PHY 308 Electronics I 3 C
CHM 311 Petroleum Chemistry 2 C
BIO 307 Evolution 2 C
Total Credit Units 17
Course Content Specification
GST 101 : Use Of English and Communication Skills I
(2C)
Listening enabling skills, listening and comprehending
comprehension, note taking and information retrieval. Including data,
figures, diagrams and charts. Listening for main idea, interpretation
and critical evaluation. Effective reading. Skimming and scanning.
Reading and comprehension at various speed levels. Vocabulary
development in various academic contexts. Reading diverse texts in

-- 210 of 377 --

211
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
narratives and expository. Reading and comprehension passages with
tables, scientific texts. Reading for interpretation and critical
evaluation.
GST 102: Use of English and Communication Skills II (2 C)
Writing paragraphs: Topic sentence and coherence. Development of
paragraphs: illustration, Description, cause and effect including
definitions. Formal letters; essential parts and stylistic forms,
complaints and requests; jobs, ordering goods, letters to government
and other organisations. Writing reports; reporting event,
experiments. Writing summaries: techniques of summarising letters
and sounds in English, vowels and consonants. Interviews, seminar
presentation, public speech making, articles, concord and sentences
including tenses. Gerund, participles, active, passive and the
infinitive. Modal auxiliaries.
GST 103: Study Skills (2 C)
Skills for studying, how to study, use of library, preparing for
examinations, revising for examinations, studying for different kinds
of examination, essay-type examination, studying for multiple choice
and short answer examinations.
GST 105: History and Philosophy of Science (2 C)
Nature of science, scientific methods and theories, law of nature,
history of science, lost sciences of African, science, technology and
inventions, nature and scope of philosophy in science, man, nature
and his origin, man, environment and resources, Great Nigerian
Scientists.
GST 107: The Good Study Guide (2 C)
Getting Started: How to use the book, why read about study skills,
getting yourself organized, what is studying all about, reading and
note-taking: introduction, reactions to reading, your reading strategy,
memory, taking notes, conclusion. Other ways of studying:
Introduction, learning in groups, talks& lectures, learning from T.V
and Radio broadcasts, other study media. Working with numbers:
Getting to know numbers, describing the world, describing the tables,
describing with diagrams and graphs, what is good writing? The
importance of writing, what does an essay look like, what is a good
essay, conclusion. How to write essays: Introduction, the craft of
writing, the advantages of treating essay writing as a craft, making

-- 211 of 377 --

212
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
your essay flow, making a convincing case, the experience of writing.
Preparing for examination.
EDU111: Foundations of Education (2C)
Philosophical and psychological perspective, philosophy of
education, meaning and relevance, equality of educational
opportunity, psychology of education, introduction to learning
theories, readiness to learning, motivation and its relation to learning,
transfer of learning, historical and sociological perspective, concept
and nature of education, types of education, the growth of education
in Nigeria, educational trends in Nigeria, innovations in education,
the status of teachers in Nigeria, education and society, social class
and educational opportunity, factors that influence education.
EDU 112: Professionalism in Teaching (2 C)
Concepts and issues in teaching, concepts of teaching and
professionalism, history of teaching in Nigeria, professional growth
of teachers, educating the educators, professional studies programs
for teachers, the teacher and the child, why teachers should care, the
making of ideal teacher, qualities of an ideal teacher, the role of the
teacher, the Nigerian Union of Teachers (NUT),the role of Parent
Teachers Association (PTA),the subject teachers association, the
status of teachers in Nigeria, strategies for making teaching a
profession.
EDU 114: History Of Education in Nigeria (2 C)
Nigeria traditional education, higher education in traditional society,
Islamic education in Nigeria, the early missionaries and the
development of education in Nigeria, colonial government
involvement in Nigeria Education 1872 – 1882, Education
Ordinances 1887 – 1916, the impact of Phelps – Stokes Commission
on Education in Northern Nigeria, Secondary Education from 1859 –
1929, Higher Education, The National Curriculum Conference and
the National Policy on Education.
PHY 111: Elementary Mechanics (2 C)
Physical quantities, standards and units; Kinematics: uniform
velocity motion, uniformly acceleration motion; Dynamics:
Newton's laws of motion; Newton's universal law of gravitation;
Work, energy, conservation laws. Concept of mechanical equilibrium.

-- 212 of 377 --

213
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Centre of mass and centre of gravity. Moment of a force; Rotational
motion, angular momentum and torque; Total mechanical energy;
Elasticity: Hooke's law, Young's, shear and bulk modulus;
Hydrostatics: pressure, buoyancy, Archimedes' principle; Elements of
hydrodynamics; Molecular properties of fluids: viscosity, surface
tension, adhesion, cohesion, capillarity, drops and bubbles.
PHY 132: Electricity, Magnetism and Modern Physics (2 C)
Electrostatics: Coulomb’s law, Gauss’s law, potential and
capacitance, dielectrics, production and measurement of static
electricity. Current: Ohm's law, resistance and resistivity, heating.
Galvanometers, Voltmeters and Ammeters; D.C. circuits: sources of
emf and currents, Kirchhoff’s laws; Electrochemistry; The Earth's
magnetic field; Magnetic fields induction, Faraday's and Lenz's laws;
Force on a current-carrying conductor. Biot-Savart law. Flemming's
right and left-hand rules, motors and generators. Atomic structure;
Production and properties of X-rays; Radioactivity; Photoelectric
emission.
PHY 191: Introductory Practical Physics I (2 C)
Graphs, Measurement, Error Analysis, Determination of Acceleration
due to Gravity by Means of Simple Pendulum, Determination of force
constant of a spiral spring, Determination of effective mass of a spiral
spring and the constant, Determination of surface tension of water,
Determination of specific latent heat of fusion of ice, Determination
of the co-efficient of limiting static friction between two surfaces,
Determination of the co-efficient of static friction on two surfaces
using an inclined plane, Determination of Relative Density of
kerosene using the specific Gravity Bottle, Determination of the
Relative Density of a Granular substance not soluble in water using
the specific gravity bottle.
BIO 101: General Biology 1 (2 C)
Characteristics of living things; cell as the basic unit of living things,
cell structure, organization, cellular organelles, tissues, organs and
systems. Classification of living things, general reproduction and
concept of inter-relationships of organism. Heredity and evolution.
Elements of ecology (introduction) and habitats.

-- 213 of 377 --

214
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
BIO 102: General Biology II (2 C)
Systematic studies of diversity of life including monera, protista,
plants (Algae, Fungi, Bryophytes, Pteridophytes, Gymnosperms and
angiosperms) and animals (Protozoa, Platyhelminthes, Annelids,
Arthropods, Fishes, Amphibians, Reptiles, Birds and Mammals)
based on similarities and differences in external morphology.
Taxonomic divisions of plant and animal kingdoms. Ecological
adaptations of these forms.
MTH 133: Trigonometry (2 C)
Trigonometric functions; Radian measure, law of sine and cosine,
sum, differences and product formulas. Trigonometric identities,
Inverse trigonometric functions, solutions of Trigonometric
equations; graph of trigonometric functions.
MTH 102: Introductory Statistics (2 C)
Measures of Central Tendency and dispersion, (grouped and
ungrouped); mean:- arithmetic and geometric, harmonic, median,
mode quartiles, deciles, modes, relative and absolute dispersion,
sample space and events as sets. Finite probability space properties of
probability. Statistical independence and conditional probability.
Tree diagram. Bayes theorem. Discrete and continuous random
variables. Expectation, independent Bernoulli trials. Binomial,
Poisson and Normal distributions. Normal approximation to binomial
and Poisson distribution, Hyper geometric.
MTH 112: Differential Calculus (2 C)
Real number: The number line, intervals, properties of absolute value.
Solving inequalities sign chart. Function from IR to IR, domain
range, graph, monotonically increasing, decreasing functions. Inverse
functions. Composition of functions. Even and odd functions,
periodic functions, Limits, convergence sequences. Limit of a
function, left and right limits and continuity. Differentiability at a
point and on an interval. Sum, product and quotient rule. Chain rule
for inverse function. Implicit differential.
MTH 142: Vectors and Geometry (2 C)
Equations of lines and planes. Vectors in IR2, IR3, Scalar products.
Vector product Triple products. Application to Geometry.

-- 214 of 377 --

215
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
CHM 103: Introductory Physical Chemistry I (2 C)
Mole concepts and calculations based on it, methods of expressing
concentrations, Chemical Kinetics and equilibrium, and related
calculations, Important application of equilibrium – pH, solubility
products and solubility of ionic solids, Thermo chemistry and simple
calculations based on Hess’s law, Electrochemistry and working of
various cells, Brief mentions of corrosion; chemical thermodynamics;
G = H - TS
CHM 101: Introductory Inorganic Chemistry I (2 C)
Hypothesis, theory and law with appropriate illustrations, Nature of
matter – 3 states of matter, Atomic structure, electronic energy levels
and orbital. Periodic classification of elements and its relationship to
their electronic configurations, Chemical bonding, Survey of
properties and trends in groups I, II, IV, VI and transition metal,
CHM 102: Introductory Organic Chemistry (2 C)
Simple reactions of hydrocarbons, alcohols and acids, petroleum
chemistry, oils and fats. Hydrogenation of oils. Polymer and
biological important molecules.
PHY 124: Geometrical and Wave Optics (2 C)
Geometrical Optics: law of reflection and refraction; Location of
images: Plane and curved mirrors; Converging and diverging thin
lenses; Thick lenses; Lens defects; Aberrations; The eye; Optical
instruments. Simple Harmonic motion; Wave motion and wave types;
Dispersion; Production of sound in strings and pipes resonance,
applications; Simple description of diffraction and interference,
applications to both light and sound waves; Polarisation of transverse
waves.
PHY 113: Heat and Properties of Matter (2 C)
Temperature and the Zeroth law of thermodynamics. Quantity of heat.
First and second laws of thermo-dynamics. Heat transfer; Heat
capacities; Latent heat; Gas laws. Isothermal and Adiabatic
expansions; Carnot cycle; Application of kinetic theory of gases.

-- 215 of 377 --

216
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
PHY 192: Introductory Practical Physics II (2 C)
Refraction through the glass block; Image formed by a concave
mirror; Determination of the focal length of the convex mirror;
Refraction through the triangular prism; Determination of the focal
length of a converging lens and the refractive index of groundnut;
Determination of resistance of resistors in series and in parallel in
simple circuits; Determination of internal resistance of a dry cell
using a potentiometer; To compare the E.M.F of cells using
potentiometer; Determine the unknown resistance of a resistor using
Wheatstone Bridge; To determine the relationship between current
trough a Tungsten and a potential applied across it.
GST 201: Nigerian Peoples and Culture (2 C)
Nigerian history, culture and arts in pre-colonial times; Nigerians’
perception of their world; culture areas of Nigeria and their
characteristics; evolution of Nigeria as a political unit;
indigene/settler phenomenon; concepts of trade; economic self-
reliance; social justice; individual and national development; norms
and values; negative attitudes and conducts (cultism and related
vices); re-orientation of moral and national values; moral obligations
of citizens; environmental problems.
GST 202: Fundamentals of Peace Studies and Conflict
Resolutions
Basic Understanding of Conflict; Definitions, Causes and Types of
Conflict, Conflict Theories, Phases in Conflict, Conflict Analysis &
Transformation. Dynamics of Conflict; Relationship between
Perception and Conflict, Language Barriers in Conflict and
Resolution, Early Warning and Early Response Mechanism, Arms
Control and Demilitarisation, Peace and Education. Trends in Global
Issues: International, Continental and Regional Organisations in the
Pursuance of World Peace, Peaceful Methods of Conflict Resolution,
Coercive Means of Conflict Resolution, Gender Issues and
Humanitarian Intervention.
GST 203: Philosophy and Logic (2 C)
Fundamentals of logic and critical thinking; types of discourse; nature
of arguments; validity and soundness; techniques for evaluating

-- 216 of 377 --

217
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
arguments; distinction between inductive and deductive inferences;
etc. Illustrations from familiar texts, including literature materials,
novels, law reports and newspaper publications
EDU 231: Curriculum Theory and Practice (2 C)
History of Curriculum Development in Nigeria: The importance of
curriculum, Curriculum Development and/or Improvement in a
developing country like Nigeria, Participants in Curriculum
Planning:- Levels of Planning, Approaches to Planning, Curriculum
Decisions:- Different Stages of Curriculum Decision, The 1969
National Curriculum Conference as a Case Study, Force affecting
Curriculum Decisions, Aims and Objectives of Nigeria Education,
Selection of Learning Experience:- Criteria for Selection, Programme
of Studies, Programme of Activities, Programme of Guidance,
Organisation of Learning Experience:- Traditional Organisation of
Curriculum, New Dimension in Organisation. Evaluation:- Evaluation
of Educational Programmes, Formative Evaluation (Action
Research), Summative Evaluation, Evaluation of the Achievement of
the Individual in the Programme:- Guidance – oriented Evaluation,
Selection – oriented Evaluation.
EDU 212: Sociology of Education (2 C)
Definition of Sociology, Education and Pedagogy from Sociological
Perspective, Education and Society, Theory of Knowledge, Principles
of the Sociology of Knowledge, Socialization:- Culture and
Personality, Education and Social Frame Work:- The Family and
Education, Education and Social Stratification – the Nigeria Elites,
Education and Social Values, Moral Education in Changing Society;
Education, Social Justice and the Teacher, Equality in Education,
Freedom in Education. The Social Functions of Education –
Education and Social Change, Education and Social Economic
Development, The Political function of Education, The Sociology of
Teaching:- The Teacher and his Role; The Reluctant Learner, The
Teacher in the Classroom, Social Relations in the School.
EDU 233: General Teaching Methods (2 C)
The Teacher and the Child, How children learn, Professional attitudes
and understanding of learners, The aims of the Teaching, The Stages

-- 217 of 377 --

218
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
In Lesson Preparation:- The Syllabus, The Scheme of work, Lesson
Notes; Steps in preparation of notes, The problem of time –table.
General Teaching Methods:- Induction Method, Deduction Method,
Induction and Deduction Methods, The Lecture Method, Dramatic
Method, Questioning and Problem Methods, The Project Methods,
Activities in the Lesson, The Art of Classroom Management:-
Qualities of a good teacher, Some common bad habits to avoid,
Dealing with the problem of discipline in class. Questions and
Questioning, Students Natural Curiosity and Enquiry, Aims in
Questing, Questions in Classroom: The teacher’s questions, the
pupil’s questions, Guidelines for questioning. Testing and
Examinations, the purpose of testing, what to test, How and when to
test, Characteristics of a good test, types of tests, marks and
Assignments, Purpose of marking and assignments, Giving and
marking assignments, Awarding and assigning marks and grades,
methods of Study, Use of test book, Art of Note-Making,
Organisation of work, Revision and review of work, Physical
environment of the classroom, Preparation for examination. Use of
Audio-Visual Aids, Importance of Audio-visual in teaching, Types of
Audio-visual Aids and their uses.
EDU 214: Philosophy of Education (2 C)
Explaining concepts of education, (Aims: - goals, objectives, end,
means); Philosophy and philosophers; Curriculum: The nature of
education in Nigeria (metaphysics) – formal and informal education,
auxiliary education, Liberal and vocational education. Knowledge and
education in Nigeria – (Epistemology) Definitions of knowledge,
Types of knowledge; Knowledge by divine revelation, By institution
Prior knowledge, Posteriori knowledge, Need for knowledge in
modern Nigeria morality and education (axiology) Define concepts of
morality and education, Determinants of good education, Logic and
education, Inductive and Deductive methods of teaching; Logic and
curriculum planning, Logic and School Administration; Discipline;
Freedom, Determination and Free will.
EDU 254: Integrated Science Methods (2 C)
The meaning of Integrated Science, Historical development of
Integrated Science, Philosophy and Objectives of Integrated Science,

-- 218 of 377 --

219
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Justification for Teaching Integrated Science, Nature of Science,
Science education curriculum reforms in Nigeria, Psychological
theories of learning and their implications for Science Teaching,
Methods of Teaching Integrated Science, Resources for teaching
Integrated Science, Preparation for teaching Integrated Science,
Science laboratory design, safety and management, Evaluation of
Science teaching and learning with reference to Integrated Science.
PHY 211: Mechanics I (2 C)
Particle kinematics and dynamics, Work, energy and power, Angular
momentum and torque, Newtonian gravitation, many particle
systems, rigid body dynamics.
PHY 202: Modern Physics I (2 C)
Atomic structure, Charge quantisation, Mass spectra, the plum
pudding model, Rutherford model and Bohr models of the atom,
Hydrogen spectra, Magnetic moment and Angular momentum of an
atom, Electron spin, Pauli exclusion principle and electronic
configuration, X-ray spectra, Wave-particle duality, Nuclear
structure: nomenclature, binding energy and stability, Radioactivity,
The radioactive series, Accelerators, Detectors.
CHM 203: Organic Chemistry II (2 C)
Factors affecting structure and physical properties of organic
compounds; factors affecting availability of electrons, stereo-
chemistry; energy of activation and free radical substitution reactions
in alkenes. Functional group chemistry. Electrophillic and
nucleophillic substitution reactions. Aromaticity. Various type of
organic reactions; e.g. addition, free radical, elimination and
substitution reactions.
CHM 205: Inorganic Chemistry II (2 C)
Chemistry of first row transition metals. Introduction to co-
ordination Chemistry including elementary treatment of crystal field
theory. Comparative Chemistry of the following elements: (a) Ga, In,
TI, (b) Ge, Sn, Pb, (c) As, Sb, Bi (d) Se, Te, Po. Elementary
introduction to Organometalic Chemistry. Role of metals in
biochemical Systems.

-- 219 of 377 --

220
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
BIO 201: Genetics 1 (2 C)
Hereditable and non-hereditable characteristics of living organisms,
chromosomes, genes, the chromosome theory of inheritance, the
chromosome structure of the Eukaryotes and Prokaryotes. Mendel's
laws. Genotype, phenotype, dominance, alleles, Linkage, crossing-
over, sex-linkage, sex chromosomes and sex determination.
Application of genetics in agriculture and medicine.
BIO 202: Introduction to Ecology (2 C)
General consideration of ecosystems including influence and
interaction of human beings with their environments. Similarities,
differences of ecosystems. Characteristics and ecological adaptations
of various forms of life.
BIO 203: General Physiology 1 (2 C)
Physical and chemical processes in animals and plants; diffusion,
osmotic pressure and osmolarity. Water potential, turgor, plasmolysis,
Gibbs-Donan relationship. Gas exchange, partial pressures (Tension),
Hydrogen-ion concentration (Ph). Henderson Hasselbach equation,
buffers in physiology. Nutrition; photo-autotrophism, heterotrophism
(essential requirements of each), Respiration and photosynthesis; RQ
and QIO in relation to metabolism, photosynthesis, oxygen and
carbon dioxide exchange.
ESM211: Global Environmental Issues (2 C)
System theory; the ecosystem concepts; the Gaia hypothesis;
environment and society; sustainable development concepts; marine
pollution; population and environment; world energy picture;
biotechnology and genetic engineering (clowning); environmental
green movements; transportation; tourism; sustainable urban
development.
BIO 205: Introductory Developmental Biology (3C)
History and present trends in cell biology. Reproductive cell division,
differentiation and growth of cells. Molecular basis of cell structure
and development. Proteins and nucleic acids.

-- 220 of 377 --

221
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
SED 305 Practicum in Science Teaching (3C)
Students are expected to carry out activities in their respective areas
of specialisation as stated below:
Agric Practicum
Activities in Farm tools & Machinery, Methods in Farm Surveying,
Management of Farm Animals, Construction of Egg candler &
candling, Soil and Soil experiments, Rocks & Rock Formation,
Floriculture .
Biology
Activities on Microscopy cell division, Construction of quaerat,
Ecosystem, Improvisation of necessary instrument in Biology e.g.
Rain gauge, ACC paper wind vane etc. Activities on genetical
principles, Construction of Herbarium, Staffing of Animals, Skeleton.
Physics
Activities on Graphs & Data handling, Activity on measurement of
Mass, Experiment on Mechanics, Experiments on light.
Chemistry
Activities on separation Techniques, Preparation of standard
solutions, Activities on volumetric Analysis, Qualitative analysis,
Test for gases activities on Identification of rations.
Integrated Science
Activities on Microscopy, Improvisation of an ecosystem, Activities
on Energy transformation, Simple machines, Thermo dynamics, Test
for gases, Separation techniques, Activities on Volumetric Analysis.
Mathematics
Improvisation of Abacus Counters
Using improvised materials to teach shapes such as triangle, circle
square etc.
Using simple games to teach elementary mathematics.

-- 221 of 377 --

222
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Computer Science
Activities on computer games, Improvising computer, Activities on
computer virus.
Note: The activities for each of the sciences listed above will
include post teaching practice discussion and
remediation.
EDU 336: Post Teaching Practice Evaluation/Remediation
(2c)
The student is required to write a comprehensive report on his/her
experiences in practical implementation of teaching/learning
strategies in the classroom as applied to the subject area. The report
should include:
• Challenges encountered during the teaching practice
• The lesson notes used during the teaching practice
• Assessment questions as well as the marking guides used
• Assessment of teaching practice supervision by the supervisor,
and
• Suggestions for improvement.
The report should be submitted by the student to the Dean through the
Study Centre Director for:
• Evaluation
• Feedback, and
• Remediation.
The result of the overall process should be communicated to the
student from the Dean through the Study Centre Director.
EDU 321 Psychology of Learning (2 C)
Definitions of psychology and learning; Theories of learning and the
theorists levels of motivation and implication for education; Memory
and forgetting, Types of memory, Method of improving memory,
Types of forgetting, Factors influencing forgetting, Implication for
education; Cognitive theory of learning; Reinforcement and

-- 222 of 377 --

223
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
punishment and classroom application; Behaviourism, Contributions
of behavioral psychologists and classroom application; Transfer of
learning and classroom application, S – R theory of Thorndike –
Skinner, Meaning of S – R, The Laws of readiness, Exercise and
effect; Punishment; Classroom application.
EDU 332: Educational Technology (2 C)
Definition of Instructional Technology, its Philosophy, Terminology,
Roles of Instructional Technology in the Learning Process, The
experience, Theory of Learning, learning and Communication in the
classroom, Learning has changed behaviour, The teacher’s
responsibilities, Selecting and using materials and media in
Instruction, Visual aids, Non-projected aids, Projectors, Projected
aids, Audio-visual aids, Creating Instructional Materials, Duplicators,
Equipment Operation, projection, Recording.
EDU 323: Basic Research Methods in Education (2 C)
Meaning of Research; Scientific method of research, Selection of the
topic, Subjects etc for research; Purposes of research studies;
Guidelines in selection of topics, Preparing a research proposal,
Statement of the problem; Determination of data required;
Hypothetical conclusions and implication, Collecting information and
data; Observation and interview methods, Basic consideration in data
collection; The correspondence method; Analysis and interpretation
of Data; Basic statistical concept and Their Computation, Designs of
Experiments:- Basic types of errors; Simple Randomised Design,
Random – Replications Design; Groups- within – Treatment design;
Treatment of extra venous variables, Scaling Problems and
Techniques:- Rating Scales, Rank-order Scales, etc, Determination of
Scale Value.
EDU 314: Comparative Education (2 C)
Scope and meaning of Education, Examination of Significant
Differences and Similarities in Education Policy and Practices in
Selected Societies, Problems of Educational Development in
Developing Countries.

-- 223 of 377 --

224
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
EDU 335: Teaching Practice I (3 C)
Students learn through practical experience how to teach particular
subjects, manage a classroom and the functions of a good teacher.
EDU 336: Post Teaching Practice Evaluation/Remediation
(2c)
PHY 308: Electronics I (3 C)
Amplifiers: Classification of amplifiers, equivalent circuit of
transistor, operating point and bias stability, small signal amplifier, r-f
amplifiers; Oscillators: negative feedback, positive feedback, LC
oscillators, RC oscillators; Power supply: power source, dc power
unit, performance of rectifier, filter circuits, regulation of output
voltage; Linear integrated circuits: the Op Amp and its applications,
amplifiers and voltage regulators.
BIO 304: General Ecology (2C)
The ecosystem approach to the study of ecology. Types of interaction.
Energy flow and nutrient cycling, population structure, population
dynamics: birth and death rate, life tables and longevity. Communities
in ecosystem. Influence of man.
CHM 311: Petroleum Chemistry (2C)
Petroleum in the contemporary energy scene: Nature, classification
and composition of crude petroleum and natural gases. Distribution of
petroleum and natural gas resources (the global and Nigerian
situations).Petroleum technology, survey of refinery products and
process. Petrochemicals as industrials raw materials. Prospects for the
petrochemical industry in Nigeria.
CHM 314 Environmental Chemistry (2 C)
Concepts of elementary cycles. Characteristics of the atmosphere.
Sources, types and effects of environmental pollution. Waste water
treatment. Composition of domestic wastes. Water chemistry and
analysis. Chemical and Physical instrumentation in environmental
sciences.

-- 224 of 377 --

225
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
CHM 304: Colour Chemistry a nd Technology (2 C)
Colour and constitution. Chemistry, properties of dyes and pigments.
Classification of dyes and fibres. Dyeing mechanisms. Preparation
and dyeing of natural and synthetic fibres.
BIO 305: Molecular Biology (3C)
Genetics studies of microorganism, metabolic pathways, genes and
chromosomes, nucleic acids (RNA and DNA), replication,
transcription, gene expression and sequencing, protein synthesis,
genotype, genetic code.
BIO 307: Evolution (2 C)
Theories of evolution, Population genetics, gene
frequency/equilibrium. Hardey Weinberg Principle, Polymorphism.
Variation; types and causes, reshuffling of genes, Mutation; origin
and types. Polyploidy, isolation mechanism, adaptation; origin of life;
evolution of organic molecules, Polymer synthesis; isolation and
replication, the first cell, origin of species. Evidence of evolution;
fossils (carbon dating), comparative anatomy, Taxonomy,
Comparative-biochemistry, physiology, immunology, cell biology.
Evolution of the plants, role of oxygen, multi cellular development.
Phylogeny, geological periods and epochs.
BIO 408: Soil Ecology (2 Units)
Classification and characterisation of soils.
Chemical components and analysis of soils and plant tissue. Plant,
soil and water relationships. Physical and chemical properties of soil.
Detritus organisms. Cycling of mineral and nutrient pool.
EDU 421: Guidance And Counselling (2 C)
Meaning, Purpose and Development of Guidance and Counseling,
The services of a School Guidance programme; - The individual
appraisal service. Information needed for the analysis of the
individual, collection of information (test, inventories etc).
Organising recording and filing information; Use of recorded
information; Information service:- Vocational Education and Personal
Social Information, Methods of obtaining and Disseminating
information; The Counselling Service:- Nature, Purpose and Theories

-- 225 of 377 --

226
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
of Counselling; The Counsellor and the counseling process, The
Placement Service in School and out-of School placement, follow up
studies; Purposes of and procedures in follow-up studies, Problems in
Guidance and counselling:- Values and attitude orientation, Guidance
as Classroom or Specialist Centered, Guidance as Direction or
Developments, Problems of Social change, Relation with other
Personnel and Services:-Counsellor and School Administration,
Relationship with teachers, Extra – School Relationship, Working
with Parents and Making Referential, Guidance:- Organisation and
Implementation, Preparation of Occupational, Information,
Practicum; Preparing and using Cumulative records.
EDU 412: Educational Management (2 C)
Define educational administration, Educational law and the control of
Education in Nigeria, The organisation of the Ministry of Education
and the function of boards of education, the Nigerian Educational
system, the school and the community, Bureaucracy and decision
making in educational administration, human relations in Educational
administration, Educational Leadership, the role of the principal, staff
personnel administration, supervision of instruction, Admission
Procedures, Student’s records and reports, Student’s discipline and
welfare, Student organisation and participation in School
Administration, Principle of planning, School finance and accounting
system, School routine and time table, The school plant and facilities,
Examinations and the problems of academic standards, Evaluation
and school inspection.
EDU 423: Measurement and Evaluation (2 C)
Definition and purpose of Measurement and Evaluation, Importance
of Tests in Education; Validity of Tests in Educational Achievement;
Functions of classroom tests, Criteria for effective testing, Problems
of tests construction; Measurement of educational outcomes,
Behavioral, cognitive and non-cognitive of education, Pupils
characteristics to be measured, Types of tests, Essay and objective
type tests advantages and disadvantages of each, when to use each of
them. Tests Administration and Scoring, Judging the Quality of a
Classroom test, Estimating, Interpreting and improving reliability of

-- 226 of 377 --

227
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
test, Validity of Classroom Tests, Problem of Marking Tests, and
Quality Control in Marking System.
EDU 420: Research Project (4C)
An application of the research methods and data processing course to
a field experience under the guidance of a selected facilitator.
EDU 426: Special Education (2 C)
Concept of special education, its definition and origins. Examination
of the terms integration, inclusion, and individualised education
programme within the context of special education. Giftedness, its
meaning, and causes as well as case studies of the gifted. The
education of gifted children. Hearing impairment and educational
considerations for the deaf. Visual impairment, its causes and history.
Educational considerations for visually impaired children.
EDU 435: Teaching Practice II (3 C)
A minimum of six weeks supervised exposure to classroom teaching
on field experience to demonstrate the degree of proficiency in
applying some of the basic theories of instruction.
B.Sc. (Ed )Computer Science Education
Graduation Requirements
To be eligible for the award of the B.Sc. (Ed) Computer Science, a
student must have passed a minimum of 160 and 124 credit units for
the four year and three year degree programme respectively. That is:
 For a four year degree course, a minimum of 165 units should
be required for graduation,
 For a direct three year course, a minimum of 121 units should
be required for graduation;
 At the commencement of the programme, each student are
furnished with the information specifying the requirements for
the award of the degree;
 Students must pass all core and GST courses.

-- 227 of 377 --

228
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Programme Structure and Degree Rules
1 Outline of Course Structure
The B.Sc. (Ed.) Computer Science Education is structured to run for a
minimum of four years and maximum of eight years for students
starting at 100 levels or minimum of three years and maximum of six
years for students at 200 level.
2 Degree Rules
To be eligible for the award of the B.Sc. (Ed.) in Computer, a student
must have passed a minimum of 160 and 124 credit units for the four
year and three year degree programme respectively.
Table 12: B.Sc. (Ed ) Computer Science Education
( a ) Summary of Distribution of Course Credits by Level
Leve
l
GST
and
other
Gener
al
Course
s
Education Subject/Specialisati
on
Area
Tota
l
Compulso
ry
Electiv
e
Compulso
ry
Electiv
e
100
Leve
l
6 6 - 30 42
200
Leve
l
6 10 - 26 42
300
Leve
l
2 15 - 33 40
400
Leve
l
- 18 - 18 36
14 49 - 97 160

-- 228 of 377 --

229
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
(b) 100 Level First Semester
Course
Code
Course Titles Credit
Unit(s)
Status
GST
101
Use of English and Communication
Skills I
2 C
GST
107
The Good Study Guide 2 C
EDU
111
Foundations of Education 2 C
PHY
101
Elementary Mechanics, Heat and
Properties Of Matter
3 C
PHY
191
Introductory Physics Practical 2 C
MTH
101
Elementary Mathematics I 3 C
MTH
103
Elementary Mathematics II 3 C
CIT
101
Computers in Society 2 C
BIO101 General Biology I 2 C
Total Credit Units 21

-- 229 of 377 --

230
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
(c) 100 Level Second Semester
( d ) 200 Level First Semester
Course
Code
Course Titles Credit
Unit(s)
Status
GST201 Nigerian Peoples and Culture 2 C
GST203 Introduction to Philosophy and Logic 2 C
EDU231 Curriculum Theory and Practice 2 C
EDU233 General Teaching Methods Effect 2 C
MTH211 Abstract Algebra I
3
C
MTH213 Numerical Analysis I 3 C
MTH281 Mathematical Methods 3 C
CIT211 Introduction to Operating Systems 3 C
CIT213 Elementary Data Processing 2 C
Total Credit Units 22
Course
Code
Course Titles Credit
Unit (s)
Status
GST
102
Use of English and Communication
Skills II
2 C
MTH
102
General Mathematics III 3 C
EDU
112
Professionalism in Teaching 2 C
EDU
114
History of Education 2 C
PHY
102
Elec., Magnetism and Modern
Physics
2 C
PHY
103
Geometric and Wave Optics 2 C
PHY
192
Introductory Physics Practical II 2 C
CIT 102 Software Application Skills 2 C
CIT 132 Programming in Basic 2 C
STT102 Introductory Statistics 2 C
Total Credit Units 21

-- 230 of 377 --

231
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
 Students must offer one elective course at any semester in
200L.
( e ) 200 Level Second Semester
Course
Code
Course Titles Credit
Unit(s)
Status
GST 202 Fundamentals of Peace Studies and
Conflict Resolution
2 C
CIT208 Information System 2 C
CIT246 Introduction to Computer Organisation 2 C
CIT 212 Systems Analysis and Design 3 C
CIT292 Computer Laboratory I 2 C
MTH282 Mathematical Methods II 3 C
EDU
212
Sociology of Education 2 C
EDU
214
Philosophy of Education 2 C
EDU
258
Computer Science Methods 2 C
Total Credit Units 20
 Students must offer one elective course at any semester in
200L.
( f ) 300 Level First Semester
Course
Code
Course Titles Credit
Unit
Status
GST
301
Entrepreneurship Education 2 C
EDU
321
Psychology of Learning 2 C
EDU
323
Basic Research Methods in Education 2 C
EDU
335
Teaching Practice I 3 C
CIT341 Data Structure 3 C
CIT
311
Computer Networks 3 C

-- 231 of 377 --

232
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
CIT
371
Introduction to Computer Graphics and
Animation
3 C
Total Credit Units 18
Take only one of the elective courses. Take 100L GST courses.
( g ) Second Semester
Course
Code
Course Titles Credit
Unit (s)
Status
MTH307 Numerical Analysis II 3 C
EDU332 Educational Technology 2 C
EDU314 Comparative Education 2 C
SED 305 Practicum In Science Education
(Computer Science Option)
2 C
EDU336 Teaching Practice Evaluation and
Feedback
2 C
CIT 309 Computer Architecture 3 C
CIT 342 Formal Languages and Automata
Theory
3 C
CIT 381 File Processing and Management 2 C
CIT 389 SIWES 3 C
Total Credit Units
22
 Students must offer one elective course of two credit units.
 Take 100L GST Courses
( h ) 400 Level First Semester
Course
Code
Course Titles Credit
Unit (s
)
Status
EDU435 Teaching Practice II 3 C
EDU421 Guidance and Counselling 2 C
EDU423 Measurement and Evaluation 2 C
CIT403 Seminar on Emerging
Technologies
3 C
CIT445 Principles and Techniques of
Compilers
3 C

-- 232 of 377 --

233
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
CIT427 Database Systems and
Management
2 C
EDU400 SIWES 3 C
Total Credit Units 18
Take only one elective.
(i ) Second Semester
Course
Code
Course Titles Credit
Unit (s)
Status
EDU412 Principles of Educational
Management
2 C
EDU420 Research Project 4 C
EDU426 Special Education 2 C
CIT432 Software Engineering II 3 C
CIT412 Modelling and Simulations 3 C
CIT474 Introduction to Expert System 2 C
CIT484 Website Design and
Programming
2 C
Total Credit Units 18
 Students must offer one elective course of 2/3credit units.
 Direct Entry students must have taken all 100L GST Courses.
Course Content Specification
GST 101: Use Of English and Communication Skills I (2C)
Listening enabling skills, Listening and Comprehending
Comprehension, Note Taking and Information Retrieval. Including
Data, figures, Diagrams and Charts. Listening for main idea,
interpretation and critical evaluation. Effective reading. Skimming
and scanning. Reading and comprehension at various speed levels.
Vocabulary development in various academic contexts. Reading
diverse texts in narratives and expository. Reading and
Comprehension passages with tables, scientific texts. Reading for
interpretation and critical evaluation.
GST 102: Use Of English and Communication Skills II (2C)
Writing paragraphs: Topic sentence and coherence. Development of
paragraphs: illustration, Description, cause and effect including

-- 233 of 377 --

234
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
definitions. Formal letters; essential parts and stylistic forms,
complaints and requests; jobs, ordering goods, letters to government
and other organisations. Writing reports; reporting event,
experiments. Writing summaries: techniques of summarising letters
and sounds in English, vowels and consonants. Interviews, seminar
presentation, public speech making, articles, concord and sentences
including tenses. Gerund, participles, active, passive and the
infinitive. Modal auxiliaries.
GST 107: The Good Study Guide (2 C)
Getting Started: How to use the book, why read about study skills,
getting yourself organized, what is studying all about, reading and
note-taking: introduction, reactions to reading, your reading strategy,
memory, taking notes, conclusion. Other ways of studying:
Introduction, learning in groups, talks and lectures, learning from T.V
and Radio broadcasts, other study media. Working with numbers:
Getting to know numbers, describing the world, describing the tables,
describing with diagrams and graphs, what is good writing? The
importance of writing, what does an essay look like, what is a good
essay, conclusion. How to write essays: Introduction, the craft of
writing, the advantages of treating essay writing as a craft, making
your essay flow, making a convincing case, the experience of writing.
Preparing for examination.
GST 202: Fundamentals of Peace Studies and Conflict
Resolutions (2)
Basic Understanding of Conflict; Definitions, Causes and Types of
Conflict, Conflict Theories, Phases in Conflict, Conflict Analysis &
Transformation. Dynamics of Conflict; Relationship between
Perception and Conflict, Language Barriers in Conflict and
Resolution, Early Warning and Early Response Mechanism, Arms
Control and Demilitarisation, Peace and Education. Trends in Global
Issues: International, Continental and Regional Organisations in the
Pursuance of World Peace, Peaceful Methods of Conflict Resolution,
Coercive Means of Conflict Resolution, Gender Issues and
Humanitarian Intervention.

-- 234 of 377 --

235
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
GST 203: Philosophy and Logic (2 C)
Fundamentals of logic and critical thinking; types of discourse; nature
of arguments; validity and soundness; techniques for evaluating
arguments; distinction between inductive and deductive inferences;
etc. Illustrations from familiar texts, including literature materials,
novels, law reports and newspaper publications
GST 301: Entrepreneurship Studies
Definition of Entrepreneurship, Relationship Between
Entrepreneurship and Small Business Management, Factors of
Entrepreneurship; Dealing with External Factors of Entrepreneurship;
Factors of Production; Profit and Other Objectives of an
Entrepreneur, the Business Environment, Understanding Viability
Study; Needs and Characteristics of Consumers; Mission and
Enterprise Objectives; Export Market Shares; Target Market; Income
Determination; Break-even Point, Size of the Business, Location
Factors; Financial Requirements Forms of Ownership; Business Plan.
Risk Analysis; Legal Requirements; Staffing, Purchasing; Production;
Management.
EDU 111: Introduction to Foundations of Education (2C)
Philosophical and psychological perspective, philosophy of
education, meaning and relevance, equality of educational
opportunity, psychology of education, introduction to learning
theories, readiness to learning, motivation and its relation to learning,
transfer of learning, historical and sociological perspective, concept
and nature of education, types of education, the growth of education
in Nigeria, educational trends in Nigeria, innovations in education,
the status of teachers in Nigeria, education and society, social class
and educational opportunity, factors that influence education.
EDU 112: Professionalism in Teaching (2 C)
Concepts and issues in teaching, concepts of teaching and
professionalism, history of teaching in Nigeria, professional growth
of teachers, educating the educators, professional studies programs
for teachers, the teacher and the child, why teachers should care, the
making of ideal teacher, qualities of an ideal teacher, the role of the
teacher, the Nigerian Union of Teachers (NUT),the role of Parent

-- 235 of 377 --

236
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Teachers Association (PTA),the subject teachers association, the
status of teachers in Nigeria, strategies for making teaching a
profession.
EDU 114: History of Education in Nigeria (2 C)
Nigeria traditional education, higher education in traditional society,
Islamic education in Nigeria, the early missionaries and the
development of education in Nigeria, colonial government
involvement in Nigeria Education 1872 – 1882, Education
Ordinances 1887 – 1916, the impact of Phelps – Stokes Commission
on Education in Northern Nigeria, Secondary Education from 1859 –
1929, Higher Education, The National Curriculum Conference and
the National Policy on Education.
EDU 231 Curriculum Theories and Practice (2 C)
History of Curriculum Development in Nigeria: The importance of
curriculum, Curriculum Development and/or Improvement in a
developing country like Nigeria, Participants in Curriculum
Planning:- Levels of Planning, Approaches to Planning, Curriculum
Decisions:- Different Stages of Curriculum Decision, The 1969
National Curriculum Conference as a Case Study, Force affecting
Curriculum Decisions, Aims and Objectives of Nigeria Education,
Selection of Learning Experience:- Criteria for Selection, Programme
of Studies, Programme of Activities, Programme of Guidance,
Organisation of Learning Experience:- Traditional Organisation of
Curriculum, New Dimension in Organisation. Evaluation:- Evaluation
of Educational Programmes, Formative Evaluation (Action
Research), Summative Evaluation, Evaluation of the Achievement of
the Individual in the Programme:- Guidance – oriented Evaluation,
Selection – oriented Evaluation.
EDU 212: Sociology of Education (2 C)
Definition of Sociology, Education and Pedagogy from Sociological
Perspective, Education and Society, Theory of Knowledge, Principles
of the Sociology of Knowledge, Socialisation: Culture and
Personality, Education and Social Frame Work:- The Family and
Education, Education and Social Stratification – the Nigeria Elites,
Education and Social Values, Moral Education in Changing Society;

-- 236 of 377 --

237
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Education, Social Justice and the Teacher, Equality in Education,
Freedom in Education. The Social Functions of Education –
Education and Social Change, Education and Social Economic
Development, The Political function of Education, The Sociology of
Teaching:- The Teacher and his Role; The Reluctant Learner, The
Teacher in the Classroom, Social Relations in the School.
EDU 233: General Teaching Methods (2 C)
The Teacher and the Child, How children learn, Professional attitudes
and understanding of learners, The aims of the Teaching, The Stages
In Lesson Preparation:- The Syllabus, The Scheme of work, Lesson
Notes; Steps in preparation of notes, The problem of time –table.
General Teaching Methods:- Induction Method, Deduction Method,
Induction and Deduction Methods, The Lecture Method, Dramatic
Method, Questioning and Problem Methods, The Project Methods,
Activities in the Lesson, The Art of Classroom Management:-
Qualities of a good teacher, Some common bad habits to avoid,
Dealing with the problem of discipline in class. Questions and
Questioning, Students Natural Curiosity and Enquiry, Aims in
Questing, Questions in Classroom: The teacher’s questions, the
pupil’s questions, Guidelines for questioning. Testing and
Examinations, the purpose of testing, what to test, How and when to
test, Characteristics of a good test, types of tests, marks and
Assignments, Purpose of marking and assignments, Giving and
marking assignments, Awarding and assigning marks and grades,
methods of Study, Use of test book, Art of Note-Making,
Organisation of work, Revision and review of work, Physical
environment of the classroom, Preparation for examination. Use of
Audio-Visual Aids, Importance of Audio-visual in teaching, Types of
Audio-visual Aids and their uses.
EDU 214: Philosophy of Education (2 C)
Explaining concepts of education, (Aims: - goals, objectives, end,
means); Philosophy and philosophers; Curriculum: The nature of
education in Nigeria (metaphysics) – formal and informal education,
auxiliary education, Liberal and vocational education. Knowledge and
education in Nigeria – (Epistemology) Definitions of knowledge,
Types of knowledge; Knowledge by divine revelation, By institution

-- 237 of 377 --

238
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Prior knowledge, Posteriori knowledge, Need for knowledge in
modern Nigeria morality and education (axiology) Define concepts of
morality and education, Determinants of good education, Logic and
education, Inductive and Deductive methods of teaching; Logic and
curriculum planning, Logic and School Administration; Discipline;
Freedom, Determination and Free will.
Entrepreneurship Education
EDU 258: Computer Science Methods (2C)
EDU 321: Psychology of Learning (2 C)
Definitions of psychology & learning; Theories of learning and the
theorists levels of motivation and implication for education; Memory
and forgetting, Types of memory, Method of improving memory,
Types of forgetting, Factors influencing forgetting, Implication for
education; Cognitive theory of learning; Reinforcement and
punishment and classroom application; Behaviourism, Contributions
of behavioral psychologists and classroom application; Transfer of
learning and classroom application, S – R theory of Thorndike –
skinner, Meaning of S – R, The Laws of readiness, Exercise and
effect; Punishment; Classroom application.
EDU 332: Educational Technology (2 C)
Definition of Instructional Technology, its Philosophy, Terminology,
Roles of Instructional Technology in the Learning Process; The
experience, Theory of Learning, learning and Communication in the
classroom, Learning has changed behaviour, The teacher’s
responsibilities, Selecting and using materials and media in
Instruction, Visual aids, Non-projected aids, Projectors, Projected
aids, Audio-visual aids, Creating Instructional Materials, Duplicators,
Equipment Operation, projection, Recording.
EDU 323: Basic Research Methods in Education (2 C)
Meaning of Research; Scientific method of research, Selection of the
topic, Subjects etc for research; Purposes of research studies;
Guidelines in selection of topics, Preparing a research proposal,
Statement of the problem; Determination of data required;
Hypothetical conclusions and implication, Collecting information and

-- 238 of 377 --

239
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
data; Observation and interview methods, Basic consideration in data
collection; The correspondence method; Analysis and interpretation
of Data; Basic statistical concept and Their Computation, Designs of
Experiments:- Basic types of errors; Simple Randomised Design,
Random – Replications Design; Groups- within – Treatment design;
Treatment of extra venous variables, Scaling Problems and
Techniques:- Rating Scales, Rank-order Scales, etc, Determination of
Scale Value
EDU 314: Comparative Education (2 C)
Scope and meaning of education, examination of significant
differences and similarities in education policy and practices in
selected societies, problems of educational development in
developing countries.
EDU 335: Teaching Practice I (3 C)
Students learn through practical experience how to teach particular
subjects, manage a classroom and the functions of a good teacher.
SED 305 Practicum in Science Education (Computer Science
Option ) (3C)
Activities on computer: Computer games, Improvising computer,
Activities on computer virus.
EDU 336: Post Teaching Practice Evaluation/Remediation
(2C)
The student is required to write (i.e. type) a comprehensive report on
his/her experiences in TPI (EDU335), the practical implications of
teaching/learning strategies in the classroom. The typed report should
not exceed two pages and should be in double line spacing. It should
include:
* The Comprehensive and general overview of the TP1
(EDU335) exercise,
* Challenges encountered during the teaching practice,
* Suggestions for teaching improvement in future TP2.

-- 239 of 377 --

240
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
The student should send originals or photocopies of all the lesson
notes used during the teaching practice. This should include
assessment questions given to the pupils/students as well as marking
guides used in marking the assessments. Comments made by the
supervisor should be seen in the submission.
(Note: The student does not need to type out a new lesson note to be
sent. He should send the complete lesson note used during TP1(
EDU335). This should be forwarded with a typed report.)
The report should be submitted by the students to the Dean through
the Study Centre Director for: i) evaluation, ii) feedback and iii)
remediation. The result of the overall process should be
communicated to the students from the Dean through the Centre
Director.
EDU 421: Fundamentals of Guidance and Counselling (2 C)
Meaning, Purpose and Development of Guidance and Counselling,
The services of a School Guidance programme; - The individual
appraisal service. Information needed for the analysis of the
individual, collection of information (test, inventories etc).
Organising recording and filing information; Use of recorded
information; Information service:- Vocational Education and Personal
Social Information, Methods of obtaining and Disseminating
information; The Counseling Service:- Nature, Purpose and Theories
of Counselling; The Counsellor and the counseling process, The
Placement Service in School and out-of School placement, follow up
studies; Purposes of and procedures in follow-up studies, Problems in
Guidance and counseling:- Values and attitude orientation, Guidance
as Classroom or Specialist Centered, Guidance as Direction or
Developments, Problems of Social change, Relation with other
Personnel and Services:- Counsellor and School Administration,
Relationship with teachers, Extra – School Relationship, Working
with Parents and Making Referential, Guidance:- Organisation and
Implementation, Preparation of Occupational, Information,
Practicum; Preparing and using Cumulative records.

-- 240 of 377 --

241
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
EDU 412: Educational Management (2 C)
Define educational administration, Educational law and the control of
Education in Nigeria, The organisation of the Ministry of Education
and the function of boards of education, the Nigerian Educational
system, the school and the community, Bureaucracy and decision
making in educational administration, human relations in Educational
administration, Educational Leadership, the role of the principal, staff
personnel administration, supervision of instruction, Admission
Procedures, Student’s records and reports, Student’s discipline and
welfare, Students organisation and participation in School
Administration, Principle of planning, School finance and accounting
system, School routine and time table, The school plant and facilities,
Examinations and the problems of academic standards, Evaluation
and school inspection.
EDU 423: Measurement and Evaluation (2 C)
Definition and purpose of Measurement and Evaluation, Importance
of Tests in Education; Validity of Tests in Educational Achievement;
Functions of classroom tests, Criteria for effective testing, Problems
of tests construction; Measurement of educational outcomes,
Behavioural, cognitive and non-cognitive of education, Pupils
characteristics to be measured, Types of tests, Essay and objective
type tests advantages and disadvantages of each, when to use each of
them. Tests Administration and Scoring, Judging the Quality of a
Classroom test, Estimating, Interpreting and improving reliability of
test, Validity of Classroom Tests, Problem of Marking Tests, and
Quality Control in Marking System.
EDU 420: Research Project (4 C)
An application of the research methods and data processing course to
a field experience under the guidance of a selected facilitator.
EDU 426: Special Education (2 C)
Concept of special education, its definition and origins. Examination
of the terms integration, inclusion, and individualised education
programme within the context of special education. Giftedness, its
meaning, and causes as well as case studies of the gifted. The
education of gifted children. Hearing impairment and educational

-- 241 of 377 --

242
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
considerations for the deaf. Visual impairment, its causes and history.
Educational considerations for visually impaired children.
EDU 435: Teaching Practice II (3 C)
A minimum of six weeks supervised exposure to classroom teaching
on field experience to demonstrate the degree of proficiency in
applying some of the basic theories of instruction.
MTH 133: Trigonometry (2 C)
Trigonometric functions; Radian measure, law of sine and cosine,
sum, differences and product formulas. Trigonometric identities,
Inverse trigonometric functions, solutions of Trigonometric
equations. Exponential and logarithmic functions, laws of exponents
and a logarithm. Algebraic functions, polynomials, division
algorithm, synthetic division, factor theorem, remainder theorem.
Rational functions, asymptotes partial factions.
MTH 112: Differential Calculus (2 C)
Real number: The number line, intervals, properties of absolute value.
Solving inequalities sign chart. Function from IR to IR, domain
range, graph, monotonically increasing, decreasing functions. Inverse
functions. Composition of functions. Even and odd functions,
periodic functions, Limits, Convergence Sequences. Limit of a
Function, Left and Right limits and continuity. Differentiability at a
Point and on an interval. Sum, Product and Quotient Rule. Chain
rule for inverse function. Implicit differential.
MTH 131: Elementary Set Theory (2 C)
Definition of set, subset, union, intersection, complements, Venn
diagram, null set, power sets, chain rule, tangent line to a space curve,
tangent plane to a surface, maxima and minima, Taylor’s formula.
Symbolic logic and truth tables, Boolean algebra, open and close
sentences; conjunction, disjunction, tautology and application of
logics in circuit design.
MTH 121: Linear Algebra I (2 C)
Definition of a matrix and types of matrices; Equality of matrices;
transpose of a matrix; Hermittan matrix; Skew Hermittan; matrix

-- 242 of 377 --

243
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Algebra: Properties of matrix addition; Scalar multiplication; matrix
multiplication. Linear Equations; Linear Equation in two unknowns;
General systems of linear equations. Determinants: Determinants of
2 x 2 matrix; Determinants of 3 x 3 matrix: properties of
determinants; Inverse of matrices; Inverse of a square matrix; Inverse
of a non-singular 2 x 2 matrix; Inverse of a 3 x 3 square matrices;
Invertible matrices and Determinants; Row Echelon form and system
of equations; solving systems of equation by row, Reduced Echelon
form; Determinant and systems of equations; Transformation of the
plane; some properties of transformation: Vector spaces; Definitions;
Sub packs, ranks of a matrix; linear dependence; Basis of vector;
Wronkian of functions.
MTH 122 Integral Calculus (2 C)
Fundamental theorem of calculus. Integration by parts, change of
variable method, integration of rational functions, trigonometric
integral, trigonometric substitutions. Numerical integration:
Trapezium method.
PHY 132: Electricity and Magnetism and Modern Physics
(2C)
Electrostatics – electric charges, forces between electric charges,
static electricity, conductors and currents, dielectrics, heating effects
of Current-secbeck and Peltic effects with practical applications.
Magnetic fields – fields due to a flat Coil, Solenoid and infinitely long
straight wire, forces between current-carrying conductors, Ammeters,
electrolysis and ion velocities, voltameters. Practical application of
electrolysis, Magnetic induction, Maxwell’s equation,
electromagnetic oscillations, waves and applications.
PHY 142: Geometric and Wave Optics (2 C)
Reflection and Refraction. Review of refractive index and Snell’s
law, real and apparent depth, Total Credit Units internal reflection,
critical angle, methods of measuring refractive index. The air-cell
method. The Prism, refraction through prism. Angle of deviation,
minimum deviation, principle of reversibility of light ray, small angle
prism. Lenses and their construction. Derivations of lens formula and
lens. Makers formulae. Virtual objects, magnification. Thin leaves in

-- 243 of 377 --

244
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
contact. Newtons formula. Spherical mirrors. The mirror formula,
spherical and chromatic aberrations. Eye defects; calculation of
powers and focal length of correcting lenses. Dispersion and
Spectrometer. Dispersion and dispersive power. The spectrometer,
essential parts and adjustments; measurements of refractive index.
Spectroscopy, classification of spectra. Applications. Optical
instruments. Basic principles, the simple magnifying glass. The
compound microscope, the astronomical telescope, the eye ring.
Wave Nature of light. Interference of light, optical path, conditions
for interference, interference fringes. Young’s experiments, Fresnel’s
biprism. Parallel sided thin films, the wedge fringes. Newton’s rings.
Applications of interference. Polarisation, Malus Law, Polaroids
PHY 191: Introductory Practical Physics (2 C)
Selected experiments on topics covered in PHY 111 and PHY 122,
Application of a variety of simple experimental techniques with
emphasis on quantitative measurements, experimental errors and
graphical analysis.
PHY 192: Introductory Practical Physics II (2 C)
Selected experiments on topics covered in PHY 131 and PHY 102
with emphasis on application of a variety of simple experimental
technique, quantitative measurements, experimental errors and
graphical analysis.
MTH 211: Introductory Set Theory and Abstract Algebra (2
C)
Set: Binary operations, mapping, equivalence relations integers:
Fundamental theorem of arithmetic, congruence equations, Euler’s
function (n) Group Theory: Definition and examples of groups.
Subgroups, Coset decomposition, Lagrange’s theorem. Cyclic
groups. Homonorphisms, Isomorphism. Odd and even permutations,
Cayley’s Theorem. Rings: Definition and examples of rings.
Commutative rings. Integral domain. Order, well-ordering
principles. Mathematical induction.

-- 244 of 377 --

245
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
MTH 213: Numerical Analysis I (2 C)
Interpolation: Lagrange’s and Hermite interpolation formulae, divided
differences and difference schemes. Interpolation formulas by use of
divided differences. Approximation: Least-square polynomial
approximation, Chebychev polynomials continued fraction and
rational fraction orthogonal polynomials. Numerical Integration:
Newton’s-cotes formulae, Gaussian Quadrature. Solution of
Equations: Graeffe’s method. Bernoulli’s method, Newton’s method,
Bairstow’s method (iterative method) Matrices and Related Topics:
Definitions, Eigenvalue and Eigenvectors, Algebraic Eigenvalue
problems-power method, Jacobi method. Systems of linear Equations:
Gauss elimination, Gauss-Jordan method. Jacobi iterative method,
Gauss-field iterative method.
MTH 307: Numerical Analysis II (2 C)
Polynomial and Splines chebyshev approximations: Orthogonal
polynomials and approximations, least squares, cubes spline, Hermite
approximations, Numerical Integration. Boundary value problem.
Introduction to numerical solution of partial differential equations.
CIT 101: Computers in Society (2 C)
Overview of the discipline of Computer Science General structure of
a computer system; Historical development of computer systems;
Generations of computer system; Computer operations; Internal
structure of a computer hardware; Microcomputer technology;
Computer numbering system; computer arithmetic; computer data
representation schemes; Problem solving with computers Elements of
programming languages. Computers in the Society internet and its
facilities. Basic file processing concepts. Introduction to computer
programming using VISUAL BASIC programming language;
Algorithms, Data Structures and Logic; Laboratory exercises in
VISUAL BASIC programming and the internet.

-- 245 of 377 --

246
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
CIT 132: Programming in BASIC (2C)
CIT 211: Introduction to Operating System (3C)
Definition of an Operating System; Types of Operating Systems;
DOS, CP/M, UNIX/ZENIX,LINUX, MS Windows 95/98/2000, etc.
Components of an Operating System; Process Management;
Supervisor, Memory Manager, I/O handlers, File System, etc.
Operating System Interface with the Hardware; Interrupts, Deadlocks,
I/O Channel, Multiplexer, Registers, Status words; Memory
Management; Virtual Memory. Operating System Interface with other
Systems Software; Linkers, Translators, Libraries, etc. Storage
Organisation and Protection.
CIT 212: Systems Analysis and Design (2 C)
General systems concepts: Systems project team organisation;
Overview of systems development process; Project identification and
selection; system requirements analysis and feasibility study; fact
finding techniques; Systems design; Analysis techniques and tools
e.g. Jackson System Development (JSD) techniques etc. Data flow
diagrams (DFD), HIPO charts. Business system design; procurement,
site preparation, system installation, system testing, system
conversions; system project, report writing, and presentation; system
documentation; post installation evaluation; compilation of a real-life
system analysis team project to provide experience in applying the
principles and techniques presented above
CIT 215: Introduction to Programming Languages (2C)
FORTRAN programming language; Comparison of various versions
of the language. Programming exercises using FORTRAN with
emphasis on scientific application problems. Elements of Pascal
language. Exercises in Pascal Program structures and programming
concepts; Structured design principles; abstraction, modularity,
stepwise refinement, structured design techniques teaching of a
structured programming language, e.g. PASCA/JAVA, C++.
CIT 237: Programming and Algorithms (3C)
The Programming Development Process, Programme design, Coding,
and Testing Principles of Good Programming Styles; Programme

-- 246 of 377 --

247
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Verification Techniques; Programme Documentations and
Maintenance; Programme Design Tools, e.g. Flowcharts,
Pseudocodes, etc. Illustration of the various Concepts with Practical
Programming Problems of Manageable Complexity e.g Knight’s Tour
or 8-queens, Life Game Problems. etc. Algorithms and Data
Structures; Divide-and Conquer Algorithms; Stacks, Queues, Trees.
A Treatment of Popular Sorting and Searching Algorithms;
Performance analysis of Algorithms. Worst-, best-and average-case
performance of the algorithms. Recursion, Hill-climbing Techniques.
CIT 208: Information System (3C)
Introduction & Basic SQL Project Introduction; Advanced SQL;
Conceptual Modeling & Schema Design; Database Programming,
JDBC, Regular Expressions. Functional Dependencies; E2;
Functional Dependency & Relational Algebra; Relational Algebra;
Introduction to XML, XML & XQuery; Web services; Transactions;
Recovery; Database Heterogeneity.
CIT 246: Computer Organisation (2C)
Number Systems; Number Representation; Computer Arithmetic;
Basic Instruction Cycle; Data types; Instruction types; Addressing
modes; Assemblers, Linkers, Loader; Subroutines, Stacks; I/O, Traps,
Interrupts; Floating-point Instructions; Instruction Set Design; Virtual
Machines, Compilation/Interpretation.
CIT 264: Software Application Skills (2 C)
Brief description of computer system: CPU, I/O devices; Operating
systems; Computer File Management; Computer Software: overview,
types, etc.; Application software: common application software;
Using Microsoft Word; Using Microsoft Excel; Features of Database
Applications and Microsoft Access; Statistical Analysis Applications;
Using SPSS software; Introduction to Desktop Publishing
applications; Computer applications in Nursing; Computer
applications in Agriculture; Managing the computer system with the
Control Panel.
CIT 292: Computer Laboratory (2C)
Laboratory Exercise using the Programming Language

-- 247 of 377 --

248
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Laboratory Exercise using a Microcomputer Operating System, e.g.
MS-97/98/2000 Laboratory Exercise using Relevant Programming
Languages such as C and C++; Submission of a Group Report of Case
Study of a Computer Centre. Laboratory Exercise in COBOL, ADA,
and SQL.
CIT 311: Computer Networks (3 C)
Basic models of communication; data communication and networks;
protocols and their basic architecture; idea for standardisation;
transfer of data; tools and mediums for transfer; data coding; data
communication interfaces; control of data connections; multiplexing;
local area networks; technology, architecture and systems; wide area
networks; types of communication; integrated digital services;
internetworking communication; network level; basics of OSI and
Internet architecture and reference models; Internet protocols; traffic
control; Types of network protocols; transport protocols; application
level; system aspects network security; distributed applications; basic
network services; network management; OSI and Internet models for
management; definition of system servers: from addresses and names
to services.
CIT 333: Software Engineering I (3 C)
Top-DOWN design, modularity, technical and managerial problem of
software development design representations; e.g. pseudo code HIPO
diagrams CASE tools and Programming Environments.
CIT 309: Computer Architecture (3 C)
Introduction, basic computer organisation; Instruction formats,
instruction sets and their design; ALU design: Adders, subtracters,
logic operations; Boolean Algebra; Karnaugh Maps; Datapath design;
Control design: Hardwired control, micro-programmed control; More
on arithmetic: Multiplication, division, floating point arithmetic;
RISC machines; Pipelining; Memory systems and error detection and
error correction coding; Caches; Memory; I/O and Storage; Multiple
Issue; Dynamic Scheduling; Data-Level Parallelism and Vectors;
Shared-Memory; Multiprocessors; Multithreading.

-- 248 of 377 --

249
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
CIT 342: Formal Languages and Automata Theory (3 C)
Introduction to language structures; languages and their
representations; Grammars; formal notations, types, Chomsky’s
language hierarchy; sentence generation and recognition; derivations;
Ambiguity and syntax and finite state automata; context-free
grammars; simplification of context-free grammars; Chomsky,
Greibach Normal Forms Push-Down automata, LR(K), grammars,
Recursive languages; semantics. Lab. exercises.
CIT 341: Data Structure (3C)
Basic Data Structure including Lists and Trees, Constructs for
Specifying and Manipulating Data types; List Structures; Binary,
AVL and other Trees, Traversal Algorithm, Graphs, Rings, Recursive
Programming; Storage Management; Stacks; Queues, Language
Features affecting Static & Dynamic Data Structures, Fixed and
Variable Sized Blocks; Best-fit; First-fit; etc. Garbage Collection;
Fragmentation; Buddy System; Block Compaction and Relocation
Hash Tables, Programming Exercises involving the Implementation
and use of Data Structures.
CIT 445: Principles and Techniques of Compliers (3C)
Recapitulation of formal grammars; source code and target code
structure of typical compiler, comparative compiling techniques.
Lexical analysis syntax analysis; simple precedence, operator
precedence, LR (K) parsers; semantics, Runt time storage allocation
code generation and code optimisation. Compiler-compilers.
Pragmatics of Compiler writing: Translator writing Error recovery
and Optimisation problems; Laboratory exercises leading to the
productions of major parts of a compiler for an actual programming
language.
CIT 371: Introduction to Computer Graphics and
Animations (3C)
Mathematics of 3-Ds and Projections; Graphical Data Structures;
Characteristics and types of Display Memories; Graphics hardware
including Digital Plotters and Display Devices; Graphics software.

-- 249 of 377 --

250
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
CIT 463: Multimedia Technology (3 C)
Introduction: What is multimedia, Multimedia systems, Quality of
service, Synchronization & orchestration, Standards, Convergence,
Value chain. Hardware: Multimedia computers, Video and graphics,
Audio, Telephone, video conference, and networks, CD and DVD,
USB and FireWire, Processors, Video for Windows, DirectX, and
ActiveMovie. Software: Browser based software architecture,
Distributed software, Servers, Network, Terminals. Audio and Video:
Digital audio; Psycho acoustics, Digital presentation of sound, Digital
images, JPEG, Video signal, Camera sensors, Colours, Colour
television, Equipment, Compression systems, Basics of video
compression, Methods, Algorithms. Interchange Formats: Application
areas, Requirements, Track and object model, Real-time transfer,
Different transfer formats, Comparison. Authoring Tools: Production
process, Tools, Barriers, Development areas. Communications: QoS,
ATM, QoS implementations, Integrated Services, Differentiated
Services. Multicast: Group control, Routing, Real-time transfer and
control protocols, Resource reservation, Session control, MBone.
Video Conference: Standards, Products, Internet telephony, CTI
(Computer Telephony Integration). Access Networks: Cable
television, Digital subscriber lines, UMTS, Digital television.
CIT 427: Database Systems and Management (2 C)
Basic concept of data bases, history of DBMS types of database,
specific problems of data independence, data reliability, integrity, etc,
data, data management, database generation, raw data, data
definitions, data structure, storage structure database logical and
physical organisation, interrogation, data model, network,
hierarchical, relational, security, policies, privacy quality and integrity
protection mechanism. Introduction & Basic SQL Project
Introduction. Advanced SQL. Conceptual Modeling and Schema
Design. Database Programming, JDBC, Regular Expressions.
Functional Dependencies E2: Functional Dependency & Relational
Algebra. Introduction to XML. XML and XQuery. Web Services.
Transactions. Recovery. Database Heterogeneity.

-- 250 of 377 --

251
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
CIT 425: Operations Research and Computer Simulations
(3C)
Simple theories of queues, stochastic processes and random numbers,
definition and uses of simulation; discrete simulation models, design
of simulation experiments; simulation langs, detailed study of a
chosen simulation language; applications; Lab. exercises. The nature
of operation research; allocation problems; inventory problems;
Replacement; maintenance and reliability problems. Dynamic
programming; sequencing and co-ordination.
CIT 432: Software Engineering II (3 C)
Programme Testing; software Reliability models Availability models.
Management Techniques. Formal Methods, e.g. VDM, OBJ.
B.Sc. (Ed) Mathematics Education
Graduation Requirements
To be eligible for the award of the B.Sc. (Ed.) in Mathematics
Education, a student must have passed a minimum of 154 and 126
credit units for the four year and three year degree programmes
respectively. That is:
 For a four year degree course, a minimum of 154 units should
be required for graduation.
 For a direct three year course, a minimum of 126 units should
be required for graduation.
 At the commencement of the programme, each student is
furnished with the information specifying the requirements for
the award of the degree.
 Students must pass all core and GST courses.
 All Education courses are core courses.
Programme Structure and Degree Rules
1 Outline of Course Structure
The B.Sc. (Ed.) Mathematics Education is structured to run for a
minimum of four years and maximum of eight years for students

-- 251 of 377 --

252
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
starting at 100 level or minimum of three years and maximum of six
years for students at 200 level.
The courses listed in the tables are designed to provide students with
an in-depth knowledge of mathematics and allow students to broaden
their knowledge in other related disciplines.
2 Degree Rule
To be eligible for the award of the B. Sc (Ed.) in Mathematics
Education, a student must have passed a minimum of 154 and 126
credit units for the four year- and three year- degree programme
respectively. However, students must offer and pass all the
compulsory courses. No student should register for more than 24 units
in any semester.
Table 13: B.Sc. (Ed) Mathematics Education
( a ) Summary of Distribution of Compulsory Course Credits by
Level
Leve
l
GST
and
other
Gener
al
Course
s
Education Subject/Specialisati
on Area
Tota
l
Compulso
ry
Electiv
e
Compulso
ry
Electiv
e
100 6 8 18 30
200 6 12 30 48
300 2 18 21 41
400 - 17 18 35
Tota
l
14 53 87 154
( b) 100 Level First Semester
S/
N
Course
Code
Course Title Lev
el
Semest
er
Unit(
s)
Statu
s

-- 252 of 377 --

253
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
1 GST10
1
Use of English and
Communication
Skills I
100 1 2 C
2 GST10
7
The Good Study
Guide
100 1 2 C
3 EDU11
1
Foundations of
Education
100 1 2 C
4 MTH1
01
Elementary
Mathematics I
100 1 3 C
5 MTH1
03
Elementary
Mathematics II
100 1 3 C
6 PHY10
1
Elementary
Mechanics &
Properties of
Matter
100 1 3 C
7 CIT101 Computer in
Society
100 1 2 C
Total
17
( c ) 100 Level Second Semester
S/
N
Course
Code
Course Title Leve
l
Semeste
r
Unit(s
)
Statu
s
1 GST102 Use of
English and
Communicati
on Skills II
100 2 2 C
2 EDU11
2
Professionalis
m in Teaching
100 2 2 C
3 EDU11
4
History of
Education in
Nigeria
100 2 2 C
4 CIT102 Software
Application
Skills
100 2 2 C
5 MTH10
2
General
Mathematics
100 2 3 C

-- 253 of 377 --

254
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
III
6 STT102 Introductory
Statistics
100 2 2 C
Total 13
( d ) 200 Level First Semester
S/
N
Course
Code
Course Title Leve
l
Semeste
r
Unit(s
)
Statu
s
1 GST201 Nigerian
Peoples and
Culture
200 1 2 C
2 GST
203
Introduction
to
Philosophy
and Logic
200 2 2 C
3 EDU
231
Curriculum
Theory and
Practice
200 1 2 C
5 MTH24
1
Introduction
to Real
Analysis
200 1 3 C
MTH21
1
Abstract
Algebra I
200 1 3 C
6 MTH28
1
Mathematica
l Methods 1
200 1 3 C
7 MTH21
3
Numerical
Analysis
200 1 3 C
8 STT211 Probability
Distribution
I
200 1 3 C
9 CIT 215 Introduction
to
Programmin
g Languages
200 1 3 C
Total 24

-- 254 of 377 --

255
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
( e ) 200 Level Second Semester
S/N Course
Code
Course Title Level Semester Unit(s) Status
1 GST 202 Fundamentals
of Peace
studies &
conflict
resolutions
200 2 2 C
2 EDU
212
Sociology of
Education
200 2 2 C
3 EDU214 Philosophy of
Education
200 2 2 C
4 EDU216 Special
Method II
Micro
Teaching
Method
200 2 2 C
5 EDU
233
General
Teaching
Methods
200 1 2 C
6 EDU240 Mathematics
Methods
200 2 2 C
7 MTH212 Linear
Algebra
200 2 3 C
8 MTH
232
Elementary
Differential
Equation 1
200 2 3 C
9 MTH210 Introduction
to Complex
Analysis
200 2 3 C
10 MTH
282
Mathematical
Methods 11
200 2 3 C
Total 24

-- 255 of 377 --

256
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
( f ) 300 Level First Semester
S/
N
Course
Code
Course Title Leve
l
Semeste
r
Unit(s
)
Statu
s
1 GST301 Entrepreneurshi
p Education
300 1 2 C
2 EDU33
5
Teaching
Practice I
300 1 3 C
3 EDU32
1
Psychology of
Learning
300 1 2 C
4 EDU32
3
Research
Methods and
Statistics in
Education
300 1 3 C
5 MTH30
1
Functional
Analysis I
300 1 3 C
6 MTH34
1
Real Analysis 300 1 3 C
7 MTH30
4
Complex
Analysis I
300 1 3 C
8 MTH38
1
Mathematical
Methods III
300 1 3 C
Total 22
Note: Direct Entry students must take 100L GST Courses. Total
number of units must not exceed 24 in a semester. The remaining
100LGST courses should be taken in future semesters of the
programme.
(g ) 300 Level Second Semester
S/
N
Course
Code
Course Title Leve
l
Semeste
r
Unit(s
)
Statu
s
1 EDU302 ICT In
Education
300 2 2 C
2 EDU332 Educational
Technology
300 2 2 C

-- 256 of 377 --

257
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
3 EDU314 Comparative
education
300 2 2 C
4 *EDU33
6
Teaching
Practice
Evaluation
and
Feedback
300 2 2 C
5 SED305 Practicum in
Science
Teaching
(Mathematic
s Option)
300 2 2 C
5 MTH308 Introduction
to
Mathematica
l Modeling
300 2 3 C
6 MTH305 Complex
Analysis II
300 2 3 C
7 MTH312 Abstract
Algebra II
300 2 3 C
Total 19
Note: The student must have taken EDU335 in a previous semester
before taking EDU336
Waiver: Students who have passed any four compulsory mathematics
courses (MTH) should be allowed to graduate.
( h ) 400 Level First Semester
S/N Course
Code
Course Title Level Semester Unit(s) Status
1 EDU421 Guidance and
Counselling
400 1 2 C
2 EDU423 Measurement
and
Evaluation
400 1 2 C
3 EDU435 Teaching
Practice II
400 1 3 C
4 SED413 Science, 400 1 2 C

-- 257 of 377 --

258
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Technology
and Society
6 MTH401 General
Topology I
400 1 3 C
7 MTH411 Measure
Theory and
Integration
400 1 3 C
8 MTH421 Ordinary
Differential
Equation
400 1 3 C
Total 18
( i )400 Level Second Semester
S/
N
Course
Code
Course Title Leve
l
Semeste
r
Unit(s
)
Statu
s
1 EDU420 Research
Project
400 2 4 C
2 EDU412 Educational
Administratio
n
400 2 2 C
3 EDU426 Special
Education
400 2 2 C
4 MTH41
2
Functional
Analysis II
400 2 3 C
5 MTH40
2
General
Topology II
400 2 3 C
6 MTH42
2
Partial
Differential
Equation
400 2 3 C
Total 17
Note: Direct Entry students must have completed their 100L GST
courses by 400L.

-- 258 of 377 --

259
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Course Content Specification
GST 101: Use of English and Communication Skills I (2C)
Listening enabling skills, listening and comprehending
comprehension, note taking and information retrieval. Including data,
figures, diagrams and charts. Listening for main idea, interpretation
and critical evaluation. Effective reading. Skimming and Scanning.
Reading and comprehension at various speed levels. Vocabulary
development in various academic contexts. Reading diverse texts in
narratives and expository. Reading and comprehension passages with
tables, scientific texts. Reading for interpretation and critical
evaluation.
GST 102: Use of English and Communication Skills II (2C)
Writing paragraphs: Topic sentence and coherence. Development of
paragraphs: illustration, Description, cause and effect including
definitions. Formal letters; essential parts and stylistic forms,
complaints and requests; jobs, ordering goods, letters to government
and other organisations. Writing reports; reporting event,
experiments. Writing summaries: techniques of summarising letters
and sounds in English, vowels and consonants. Interviews, seminar
presentation, public speech making, articles, concord and sentences
including tenses. Gerund, participles, active, passive and the
infinitive. Modal auxiliaries.
GST 105: History and Philosophy of Science (2 C)
Nature of science, scientific methods and theories, law of nature,
history of science, lost sciences of African, science, technology and
inventions, nature and scope of philosophy in science, man, nature
and his origin, man, environment and resources, Great Nigerian
Scientists.
GST 107: The Good Study Guide (2 C)
Getting Started: How to use the book, why read about study skills,
getting yourself organized, what is studying all about, reading and
note-taking: introduction, reactions to reading, your reading strategy,
memory, taking notes, conclusion. Other ways of studying:
Introduction, learning in groups, talks and lectures, learning from T.V

-- 259 of 377 --

260
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
and Radio broadcasts, other study media. Working with numbers:
Getting to know numbers, describing the world, describing the tables,
describing with diagrams and graphs, what is good writing? The
importance of writing, what does an essay look like, what is a good
essay, conclusion. How to write essays: Introduction, the craft of
writing, the advantages of treating essay writing as a craft, making
your essay flow, making a convincing case, the experience of writing.
Preparing for examination.
CIT 101: Computers in Society (2 C)
Overview of the discipline of Computer Science, General structure of
a computer system; Historical development of computer systems;
Generations of computer system; Computer operations; Internal
structure of a computer hardware; Microcomputer technology;
Computer numbering system; computer arithmetic; computer data
representation schemes; Problem solving with computers, Elements
of programming languages. Computers in the Society, internet and its
facilities. Basic file processing concepts. Introduction to computer
programming using VISUAL BASIC programming language;
Algorithms, Data Structures and Logic; Laboratory exercises in
VISUAL BASIC programming and the internet.
EDU 111: Foundations of Education (2C)
Philosophical and psychological perspective, philosophy of
education, meaning and relevance, equality of educational
opportunity, psychology of education, introduction to learning
theories, readiness to learning, motivation and its relation to learning,
transfer of learning, historical and sociological perspective, concept
and nature of education, types of education, the growth of education
in Nigeria, educational trends in Nigeria, innovations in education,
the status of teachers in Nigeria, education and society, social class
and educational opportunity, factors that influence education.
EDU 112: Professionalism in Teaching (2 C)
Concepts and issues in teaching, concepts of teaching and
professionalism, history of teaching in Nigeria, professional growth
of teachers, educating the educators, professional studies programs
for teachers, the teacher and the child, why teachers should care, the

-- 260 of 377 --

261
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
making of ideal teacher, qualities of an ideal teacher, the role of the
teacher, the Nigerian Union of Teachers (NUT), the role of Parent
Teachers Association (PTA),the subject teachers association, the
status of teachers in Nigeria, strategies for making teaching a
profession.
EDU 114: History of Education in Nigeria (2 C)
Nigeria traditional education, higher education in traditional society,
Islamic education in Nigeria, in Nigeria, the early missionaries and
the development of education in Nigeria, colonial government
involvement in Nigeria Education 1872 – 1882, Education
Ordinances 1887 – 1916, the impact of Phelps – Stokes Commission
on Education in Northern Nigeria, Secondary Education from 1859 –
1929, Higher Education, The National Curriculum Conference and
the National Policy on Education.
(Algebra and Trigonometry)
Elementary set theory, subsets, union, intersection, complements,
Venn diagrams. Real numbers; integers, rational and irrational
numbers, mathematical induction, real sequences and series, theory of
quadratic equations, binomial theorem. Complex numbers; algebra of
complex numbers; the Argand Diagram. De Moivre's theorem, nth
roots of unity. Circular measure, trigonometric functions of angles of
any magnitude, addition and factor formulae.
MTH 102: Elementary Mathematics III: (3 Units) Pre-Requisite –
MTH 101
(Vectors, Geometry and Dynamics)
Geometric representation of vectors in 1-3 dimensions, components,
direction cosines. Addition and Scalar multiplication of vectors and
linear independence. The Scalar and vector products of two vectors.
Differentiation and integration of vectors with respect to a scalar
variable. Two-dimensional co-ordinate geometry. Straight lines,
circles, parabola, ellipse, hyperbola. Tangents, normals. Impact of
two smooth sphere, and of a sphere on a smooth sphere.

-- 261 of 377 --

262
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
MTH 103: Elementary Mathematics III: (3 Units) Calculus
Function of a real variable, graphs, limits and idea of continuity. The
derivative as limit of rate of change, Techniques of differentiation,
Extreme curve sketching. Integration as an inverse of differentiation,
Methods of integration, Definite integrals; Application to areas and
volumes
MTH 131: Elementary Set Theory (2 C)
Definition of set, subset, union, intersection, complements, Venn
diagram, null set, power sets, chain rule, tangent line to a space curve,
tangent plane to a surface, maxima and minima, Taylor’s formula.
Symbolic logic and truth tables, Boolean algebra, open and close
sentences; conjunction, disjunction, tautology and application of
logics in circuit design.
MTH 121 Linear Algebra I (2 C)
Definition of a matric and types of matrices; Equality of matrices;
transpose of a matrix; Hermittan matric; Skew Hermittan; matrix
Algebra: Properties of matrix addition; Scalar multiplication; matrix
multiplication. Linear equations; linear equation in two unknowns;
General systems of linear equations. Determinants: Determinants of
2 x 2 matrix; Determinants of 3 x 3 matrix: properties of
determinants; Inverse of matrices; Inverse of a square matrix; Inverse
of a non-singular 2 x 2 matrix; Inverse of a 3 x 3 square matrices;
Invertible matrices and Determinants; Row Echelon form and system
of equations; solving systems of equation by row, Reduced Echelon
form; Determinant and systems of equations; Transformation of the
plane; some properties of transformation: Vector spaces; Definitions;
subspacks, ranks of a matrix; linear dependence; Basis of vector;
Wronkian of functions.
PHY 124: Geometrical and Wave Optics (2 C)
Geometrical Optics: law of reflection and refraction; Location of
images: Plane and curved mirrors; Converging and diverging thin
lenses; Thick lenses; Lens defects; Aberrations; The eye; Optical
instruments. Simple Harmonic motion; Wave motion and wave types;
Dispersion; Production of sound in strings and pipes resonance,
applications; Simple description of diffraction and interference,

-- 262 of 377 --

263
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
applications to both light and sound waves; Polarisation of transverse
waves.
PHY 111: Elementary Mechanics (2C)
Physical quantities, unit and dimensions space and time, frames of
reference, vestures and scalars, kinematics – straight line, line motion,
vertical motion, circular motion, deviation. Dynamics – Equilibrium,
work and energy, mass and momentum, laws of inertia, rotational
motion, simple harmonic motion, conservation laws, simple
machines, fundamental laws of statics and dynamics, Galilean
invariance.
CIT 102: Software Application Skills (2C)
Brief description of computer system: CPU, I/O devices; Operating
systems; Computer File Management; Computer Software: overview,
types, etc.; Application software: common application software;
Using Microsoft Word; Using Microsoft Excel; Features of Database
Applications and Microsoft Access; Statistical Analysis Applications;
Using SPSS software; Introduction to Desktop Publishing
applications; Computer applications in Nursing; Computer
applications in Agriculture; Managing the computer system with the
Control Panel.
MTH 122: Integral Calculus (2 C)
Fundamental theorem of calculus. Integral by parts, change of
variable method, integration of rational functions, trigonometric
integral, trigonometric substitutions. Numerical integration:
Trapezium method.
MTH 142 Vectors and Geometry (2 C)
Equations of lines and planes. Conic sections, circles parabola,
hyperbola, ellipse. Vectors in IR2, IR3, Scalar products. Vector
product Triple products. Application to Geometry.
GST 201: Nigerian Peoples and Culture (2 C)
Nigerian history, culture and arts in pre-colonial times; Nigerians’
perception of their world; culture areas of Nigeria and their
characteristics; evolution of Nigeria as a political unit;

-- 263 of 377 --

264
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
indigene/settler phenomenon; concepts of trade; economic self-
reliance; social justice; individual and national development; norms
and values; negative attitudes and conducts (cultism and related
vices); re-orientation of moral and national values; moral obligations
of citizens; environmental problems.
GST 202: Fundamentals of Peace Studies and Conflict
Resolution (2)
Basic Understanding of Conflict; Definitions, Causes and Types of
Conflict, Conflict Theories, Phases in Conflict, Conflict Analysis &
Transformation. Dynamics of Conflict; Relationship between
Perception and Conflict, Language Barriers in Conflict and
Resolution, Early Warning and Early Response Mechanism, Arms
Control and Demilitarisation, Peace and Education. Trends in Global
Issues: International, Continental and Regional Organisations in the
Pursuance of World Peace, Peaceful Methods of Conflict Resolution,
Coercive Means of Conflict Resolution, Gender Issues and
Humanitarian Intervention.
GST 203: Philosophy and Logic (2 C)
Fundamentals of logic and critical thinking; types of discourse; nature
of arguments; validity and soundness; techniques for evaluating
arguments; distinction between inductive and deductive inferences;
etc. Illustrations from familiar texts, including literature materials,
novels, law reports and newspaper publications
EDU 231: Curriculum Theory and Practice (2 C)
History of Curriculum Development in Nigeria: The importance of
curriculum, Curriculum Development and/or Improvement in a
developing country like Nigeria, Participants in Curriculum
Planning:- Levels of Planning, Approaches to Planning, Curriculum
Decisions:- Different Stages of Curriculum Decision, The 1969
National Curriculum Conference as a Case Study, Force affecting
Curriculum Decisions, Aims and Objectives of Nigeria Education,
Selection of Learning Experience:- Criteria for Selection, Programme
of Studies, Programme of Activities, Programme of Guidance,
Organisation of Learning Experience:- Traditional Organisation of
Curriculum, New Dimension in Organisation. Evaluation:- Evaluation

-- 264 of 377 --

265
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
of Educational Programmes, Formative Evaluation (Action
Research), Summative Evaluation, Evaluation of the Achievement of
the Individual in the Programme:- Guidance – oriented Evaluation,
Selection – oriented Evaluation
EDU 212: Sociology of Education (2 C)
Definition of Sociology, Education and Pedagogy from Sociological
Perspective, Education and Society, Theory of Knowledge, Principles
of the Sociology of Knowledge, Socialisation:- Culture and
Personality, Education and Social Frame Work:- The Family and
Education, Education and Social Stratification – the Nigeria Elites,
Education and Social Values, Moral Education in Changing Society;
Education, Social Justice and the Teacher, Equality in Education,
Freedom in Education. The Social Functions of Education –
Education and Social Change, Education and Social Economic
Development, The Political function of Education, The Sociology of
Teaching:- The Teacher and his Role; The Reluctant Learner, The
Teacher in the Classroom, Social Relations in the School.
EDU 233: General Teaching Methods (2 C)
The Teacher and the Child, How children learn, Professional attitudes
and understanding of learners, The aims of the Teaching, The Stages
In Lesson Preparation:- The Syllabus, The Scheme of work, Lesson
Notes; Steps in preparation of notes, The problem of time –table.
General Teaching Methods:- Induction Method, Deduction Method,
Induction and Deduction Methods, The Lecture Method, Dramatic
Method, Questioning and Problem Methods, The Project Methods,
Activities in the Lesson, The Art of Classroom Management:-
Qualities of a good teacher, Some common bad habits to avoid,
Dealing with the problem of discipline in class. Questions and
Questioning, Students Natural Curiosity and Enquiry, Aims in
Questing, Questions in Classroom: The teacher’s questions, the
pupil’s questions, Guidelines for questioning. Testing and
Examinations, the purpose of testing, what to test, How and when to
test, Characteristics of a good test, types of tests, marks and
Assignments, Purpose of marking and assignments, Giving and
marking assignments, Awarding and assigning marks and grades,
methods of Study, Use of test book, Art of Note-Making,

-- 265 of 377 --

266
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Organisation of work, Revision and review of work, Physical
environment of the classroom, Preparation for examination. Use of
Audio-Visual Aids, Importance of Audio-visual in teaching, Types of
Audio-visual Aids and their uses.
EDU 214: Philosophy of Education (2 C)
Explaining concepts of education, (Aims: - goals, objectives, end,
means); Philosophy and philosophers; Curriculum: The nature of
education in Nigeria (metaphysics) – formal and informal education,
auxiliary education, Liberal and vocational education. Knowledge and
education in Nigeria – (Epistemology) Definitions of knowledge,
Types of knowledge; Knowledge by divine revelation, By institution
Prior knowledge, Posteriori knowledge, Need for knowledge in
modern Nigeria morality and education (axiology) Define concepts of
morality and education, Determinants of good education, Logic and
education, Inductive and Deductive methods of teaching; Logic and
curriculum planning, Logic and School Administration; Discipline;
Freedom, Determination and Free will.
EDU 240: Mathematics Methods (2 C)
Brief History of Mathematics; Importance of Mathematics in relation
to other Subjects; some Mathematicians and their contributions.
Curriculum Development in Mathematics; Selecting Mathematical
goals and objectives, Mathematical Syllabus, Scheme of Work, Unit
Plans, Lesson plans, and Characteristics of a lesson plan. Individual
differences in Mathematical learning, Motivating Student to learn
Mathematics, some Selected Method of Teaching, Introducing
Concept in mathematics; Learning Aids in Mathematics; their
Objectives and characteristics, Production of learning aids,
Mathematics Laboratory as an approach of teaching
CIT 215: Introduction to Programming Languages (2C)
FORTRAN programming language; Comparison of various versions
of the language. Programming exercises using FORTRAN with
emphasis on scientific application problems. Elements of Pascal
language. Exercises in Pascal Program structures and programming
concepts; Structured design principles; abstraction, modularity,

-- 266 of 377 --

267
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
stepwise refinement, structured design techniques teaching of a
structured programming language, e.g. PASCA/JAVA, C++.
MTH 211: Abstract Algebra I (3C)
Set: Binary operations, mapping, equivalence relations integers:
Fundamental theorem of arithmetic, congruence equations, Euler’s
function (n) Group Theory: Definition and examples of groups.
Subgroups, coset decomposition, Lagrange’s theorem. Cyclic groups.
Homonorphisims, isomorphism. Odd and even permutations.
Cayley’s theorem. Rings: Definition and examples of rings.
Commutative rings. Integral domain. Order, well-ordering principles.
Mathematical induction.
MTH 281: Mathematical Method I (3 C)
Sequences and Series: Limits, continuity, Differentiability, implicit
functions, sequences. Series, test for convergence sequences and
series of functions. Calculus: partial differentiation, total derivatives,
implicitly functions, change of variables. Taylor’s theorem and
maxima and minima functions, of two variables. Lagrangian
multiplier. Numerical Methods: Introduction to iterative methods,
Newton’s method applied to finding roots. Trapezium and Sipsons
rules of integration.
MTH 213 Numerical Algebra I (3 C)
Interpolation: Lagrange’s and Hermite interpolation formulae, divided
differences and difference schemes. Interpolation formulas by use of
divided differences. Approximation: Least-square polynomial
approximation, Chebychev polynomials continued fraction and
rational fraction orthogonal polynomials.
Numerical Integration: Newton’s-cotes formulae, Gaussian
Quadrature. Solution of Equations: Graffe’s method (iterative
method) Matrices and Related Topics: Definitions, Eigenvalue and
Eigenvectors, Algebraic Eigenvalue problems-power method, Jacobi
method. Systems of linear Equations: Gauss elimination, Gauss-
Jordan method. Jacobi iterative method, Gauss-field iterative method.

-- 267 of 377 --

268
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
MTH 232 Elementary Differential Equation (3 C)
Introduction, equation of first order and first degree, separable
equations, homogeneous equations, exact equations, linear equations,
Bernoulli’s and Riccati equations. Applications to mechanics and
electricity. Orthogonal and oblique trajectories. Second order
equations with constant coefficients.
MTH 212: Linear Algebra II (3 C)
Vector spaces. Liner independence. Basis, change of basis and
dimension. Linear equations and matrices. Linear maps. The
diagonal, permutation, triangular matrices. Elementary matrix. The
inverse of a matrix. Rank and nullity. Determinants. Adjoint,
cofactors, inverse matric. Determinant rank. Crammer’s rule.
Canonical forms, similar matrics, Eigen values and vectors, quadratic
forms.
MTH 251: Mechanics I (3C)
Static: System of live vectors. Coyoles and wrenches. Principles of
virtual work. Stability of equilibrium. Dynamics of systems of
particles: Elastic strings. Hooks law. Motion in resisting media.
Changing mass. Motion along a curve. Frenets formulae. Coplanar
Motion: Energy equation. Motion in a vertical circle. Simple
pendulum. The cycloid and cycloidal motion. Orbital motion-
disturbed orbits and stability.
MTH 210: Introduction to Complex Analysis (3 C)
Complex number, the topology of complex plane. Limits and
continuity of function of complex variables, properties and example
of analytic functions, branch-points, Cauchy-Riemann equations.
Harmonic function.
STT 211: Probability Distribution I (3C)
Discrete sample spaces: Algebra and probability of events,
combinatorial analysis. Sampling with and without replacement.
Conditional probability, Bayes theorem and stochastic independence.
Discrete distributions: Binomial, Poisson, negative binomial-hyper
geometric and multinomial. Normal approximation to binomial and
Poisson, Poisson approximation to binomial. Random variables and

-- 268 of 377 --

269
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
expectations: mean, variance, covariance. Probability generating
function and moment generating function. Cheycher’s inequality.
Continuous joint distributions: marjind as conditional density.
Expectations: movement, movement generating functions. Uniform
normal, beta Cauchy and hop-normal distributions.
CIT 208: Information Systems
Introduction & Basic SQL Project Introduction. Advanced SQL.
Conceptual Modelling and Schema Design. Database Programming,
JDBC, Regular Expressions. Functional Dependencies E2: Functional
Dependency & Relational Algebra. Relational Algebra. Introduction
to XML.XML and XQuery. Web Services. Transactions. Recovery.
Database Heterogeneity.
GST 301: Entrepreneurship Studies (2)
Definition of Entrepreneurship, Relationship Between
Entrepreneurship and Small Business Management, Factors of
Entrepreneurship; Dealing with External Factors of Entrepreneurship;
Factors of Production; Profit and Other Objectives of an
Entrepreneur, the Business Environment, Understanding Viability
Study; Needs and Characteristics of Consumers; Mission and
Enterprise Objectives; Export Market Shares; Target Market; Income
Determination; Break-even Point, Size of the Business, Location
Factors; Financial Requirements Forms of Ownership; Business Plan.
Risk Analysis; Legal Requirements; Staffing, Purchasing; Production;
Management.
EDU 321: Psychology of Learning (2 C)
Definitions of psychology and learning; Theories of learning and the
theorists levels of motivation and implication for education; Memory
and forgetting, Types of memory, Method of improving memory,
Types of forgetting, Factors influencing forgetting, Implication for
education; Cognitive theory of learning; Reinforcement and
punishment and classroom application; Behaviourism, Contributions
of behavioral psychologists and classroom application; Transfer of
learning and classroom application, S – R theory of Thorndike –
Skinner, Meaning of S – R, The Laws of readiness, Exercise and
effect; Punishment; Classroom application.

-- 269 of 377 --

270
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
EDU 332: Educational Technology (2 C)
Definition of Instructional Technology, its Philosophy, Terminology,
Roles of Instructional Technology in the Learning Process; The
experience, Theory of Learning, learning and Communication in the
classroom, Learning has changed behaviour, The teacher’s
responsibilities, Selecting and using materials and media in
Instruction, Visual aids, Non-projected aids, Projectors, Projected
aids, Audio-visual aids, Creating Instructional Materials, Duplicators,
Equipment Operation, projection, Recording.
EDU 323: Basic Research Methods in Education (2 C)
Meaning of Research; Scientific method of research, Selection of the
topic, Subjects etc for research; Purposes of research studies;
Guidelines in selection of topics, Preparing a research proposal,
Statement of the problem; Determination of data required;
Hypothetical conclusions and implication, Collecting information and
data; Observation and interview methods, Basic consideration in data
collection; The correspondence method; Analysis and interpretation
of Data; Basic statistical concept and Their Computation, Designs of
Experiments:- Basic types of errors; Simple Randomised Design,
Random – Replications Design; Groups- within – Treatment design;
Treatment of extra venous variables, Scaling Problems and
Techniques:- Rating Scales, Rank-order Scales, etc, Determination of
Scale Value
EDU 314: Comparative Education (2 C)
Scope and meaning of education, examination of significant
differences and similarities in education policy and practices in
selected societies, problems of educational development in
developing countries.
EDU 335 Teaching Practice I (3 C)
Students learn through practical experience how to teach particular
subjects, manage a classroom, and the functions of a good teacher.
SED 305: Practicum in Science Teaching (Mathematics
Option) (2C)
Constructions of plane shapes- lines, triangles, quadrilaterals, locus

-- 270 of 377 --

271
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Construction of circle, inscribed and described circles
The pi: deriving the value of constant pi by measurement, calculation
and by graph.
Nets of 3’D shapes
Teachers and students constructing various types of 3’D shapes (using
both cardboards and solid materials like plywood), the globe;
Construction of Abacus, Geoboard, probability box.
Use of games to teach mathematics. Individuals to construct their own
game or materials to teach some identified concepts in mathematics.
Computer typesetting of mathematics materials involving various
mathematical symbols, subscripts, use of letters outside the English
alphabet.
Using the computer to draw plane shapes and solid shapes according
to specifications desired, Plotting of graphs using the computer.
EDU 336: Post Teaching Practice Evaluation and Feedback
(2)
The student is required to write (i.e. type) a comprehensive report
on his/her experiences in TPI (EDU335) the practical implications of
teaching/learning strategies in the classroom. The typed report which
should not be more than 2 pages 11/2 line spacing, should include:
* The Comprehensive and general report of the TP1 (EDU335)
exercise,
* Challenges encountered during the teaching practice,
* Suggestions for improvement on future teaching experience
i.e TP2.
Send originals or photocopies of all the lesson notes used during the
teaching practice. This should include assessment questions given to
the pupils/students as well as marking guides used in marking the
assessments. Comments made by the supervisors should be seen in
the submissions.
*Note: The student does not need to type out a new lesson note to be
sent. He should send actual lesson notes used during TP1 i.e.
EDU335. This should be forwarded with a typed report.

-- 271 of 377 --

272
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
The report should be submitted by the student to the Dean through
the Study Centre Director for: i) evaluation, ii) feedback and iii)
remediation. The result of the overall process should be
communicated to the student from the Dean through the Centre
Director.
MTH 304: Complex Analysis 1 (3 C)
Functions of a complex variable. Limits and continuity of functions of
a complex variables. Deriving the Cauchy-Riemann equations.
Analytic functions. Bilinear transformations, conformal mapping.
Contour Integrals, Cauchy’s theorems and its main consequences.
Convergence of sequences and series of functions of a complex
variables. Power Series, Taylor Series.
MTH 301: Functional Analysis I (3 C)
Metric Spaces – Definitions and examples. Open Sphere of (balls)
closed sets, interior, exterior, frontier, limit points and closure of a
set. Dense subsets and separable space. Convergence in metric
space, homeomorphism, continuity and compactness.
MTH 302: Elementary Differential Equation II (3 C)
Series, solution of second order linear equations. Bessel, legendry
and hypergeometric equations and functions. Gamma and Beta
functions. Storm Lionvelle problems. Orthogonal polynomial and
functions, Fourier, Fourier, Bessel and Fourier – legendry series.
Expansion in series of orthogonal functions. Fourier transformation.
Laplace transforms, solution of wave and heat equations by Fourier
method.
MTH 312 Abstract Algebra II (3 C)
Normal subgroups and quotient groups. The isomorphism theorem.
Symmetric groups, automorphism, conjugate classes, Normalisers.
The sylow theorems. Normal and composition series. The Jordan-
Holder theorem. Direct product. Solvable group. Isomorphism
theorems for rings. Ideals and quotient rings. Commutative ring,
maximal ideals. Euclidean rings, principal ideal domain and unique
factorisation domain.

-- 272 of 377 --

273
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
EDU 421: Guidance And Counselling (2 C)
Meaning, Purpose and Development of Guidance and Counseling,
The services of a School Guidance programme; - The individual
appraisal service. Information needed for the analysis of the
individual, collection of information (test, inventories etc).
Organising recording and filing information; Use of recorded
information; Information service:- Vocational Education and Personal
Social Information, Methods of obtaining and Disseminating
information; The Counselling Service:- Nature, Purpose and Theories
of Counselling; The Counsellor and the counseling process, The
Placement Service in School and out-of School placement, follow up
studies; Purposes of and procedures in follow-up studies, Problems in
Guidance and counselling:- Values and attitude orientation, Guidance
as Classroom or Specialist Centered, Guidance as Direction or
Developments, Problems of Social change, Relation with other
Personnel and Services:-Counsellor and School Administration,
Relationship with teachers, Extra – School Relationship, Working
with Parents and Making Referential, Guidance:- Organisation and
Implementation, Preparation of Occupational, Information,
Practicum; Preparing and using Cumulative records.
EDU 412: Educational Management (2 C)
Define educational administration, Educational law and the control of
Education in Nigeria, The organisation of the Ministry of Education
and the function of boards of education, the Nigerian Educational
system, the school and the community, Bureaucracy and decision
making in educational administration, human relations in Educational
administration, Educational Leadership, the role of the principal, staff
personnel administration, supervision of instruction, Admission
Procedures, Student’s records and reports, Student’s discipline and
welfare, Student organisation and participation in School
Administration, Principle of planning, School finance and accounting
system, School routine and time table, The school plant and facilities,
Examinations and the problems of academic standards, Evaluation
and school inspection.

-- 273 of 377 --

274
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
EDU 423: Measurement and Evaluation (2 C)
Definition and purpose of Measurement and Evaluation, Importance
of Tests in Education; Validity of Tests in Educational Achievement;
Functions of classroom tests, Criteria for effective testing, Problems
of tests construction; Measurement of educational outcomes,
Behavioral cognitive and non-cognitive of education, Pupils
characteristics to be measured, Types of tests, Essay and objective
type tests advantages and disadvantages of each, when to use each of
them. Tests Administration and Scoring, Judging the Quality of a
Classroom test, Estimating, Interpreting and improving reliability of
test, Validity of Classroom Tests, Problem of Marking Tests, and
Quality Control in Marking System.
EDU 420: Research Project (4 C)
An application of the research methods and data processing course to
a field experience under the guidance of a selected facilitator.
EDU 426: Special Education (2 C)
Concept of special education, its definition and origins. Examination
of the terms integration, inclusion, and individualised education
programme within the context of special education. Giftedness, its
meaning, and causes as well as case studies of the gifted. The
education of gifted children. Hearing impairment and educational
considerations for the deaf. Visual impairment, its causes and history.
Educational considerations for visually impaired children.
EDU 435: Teaching Practice II (3 C)
A minimum of six weeks supervised exposure to classroom teaching
on field experience to demonstrate the degree of proficiency in
applying some of the basic theories of instruction.
MTH 401: General Topology I (3 C)
Point Set Topology: The space RnEuclidean metric. Metrics, open
spheres, metric topologies, metric spaces, properties of metric
topologies. Equivalent metric. Heine-Borel theorem. Bolzano-
wierstress theorem. Properties of separable, complete, compact,
locally-compact and connected spaces. Cantor’s set. Continuity and
uniform continuity of mappings on metric space. Topological spaces:

-- 274 of 377 --

275
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Definitions, examples, accumulation points, closes sets, closure,
interior, exterior and boundary of a set. Neighbourhoods, and
neighbourhood systems. Coarser and finer topologies, subspaces and
relatives topologies. Base for a topology sub bases.
MTH 411: Measure Theory and Integration (3 C)
Measure Theory: Measure of open, closed sets. Outer and inner
measure. Measurable sets. Properties of measure. Non-measurable
sets. Measurable in the scene of Borel. Measurable space. Measurable
functions. Simple function Algebra. The Lebesgue integral:
Lebesgue measure. Integral of non-negative function. Integral as
measure of ordinate set, as a limit of approximate sums. Integral of
an unbounded function. Integral over an infinite range. Simple
properties of the integral. Sequences of integral (Positive functions;
functions with positive and negative values).Lesbesgue monotone
convergence theorem. Fatou’s Lemma, Dominated convergence.
Bepo’s Lemma-Bounded Convergence. Sets of measure zero.
Integration by parts. Fubini’s theorem and applications to multiple
integrals.
MTH 412: Functional Analysis II (3C)
Normal Linear Space: Definition and examples. Convex sets.
Norms. Holder’s minkowski’s inequalities. Riese-Fisher theorem.
Linear operations on finite dimensional spaces. Linear functionals
spaces. Banach spaces, examples. Quotient spaces. Inner product
spaces. Topological linear spaces. Hilbert space, examples. Linear
operators in Hilbert spaces. Adjoint operators. Hermitian operators.
Orthogonality; orthogonal complement and projections in Hilbert
spaces.
MTH 421: Ordinary Differential Equations (3 C)
Existence and uniqueness theorems, dependence of solution on initial
data and parameters. Properties of solutions. General theory for
linear differential equation with constant coefficients, the two-point
sturum Lionville boundary value problem, self-adjointness, linear and
non-linear equations, Theorems and solution of Lyapunov equation.
Controllability and observability.

-- 275 of 377 --

276
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
B.Sc. (Ed) Agricultural Science
Graduation Requirements
To be eligible for the award of the B Sc.(Ed.) Agricultural Science, a
student must have passed a minimum of 140 and 111 credit units for
the four- year and three-year degree programmes respectively. That
is:
 For a four-year degree course, a minimum of 140 units should
be required for graduation.
 For a direct three-year course, a minimum of 111 units should
be required for graduation.
 At the commencement of the programme, each student is
furnished with the information specifying the requirements for
the award of the degree.
 Students must pass all core and GST courses.
Table 14: B.Sc. (Ed) Agricultural Science
(a) 100 Level First Semester
S/
N
Course
Code
Course Title Leve
l
Semeste
r
Credit
Unit(s
)
Statu
s
1 GST
101
Use of English
and
Communicatio
n Skills I
100 First 2 C
2 GST107 The Good
Study Guide
100 First 2 C
3 EDU111 Foundations
of Education
100 First 2 C
4 CIT101 Computer in
Society
100 First 2 C
5 BIO101 General
Biology I
100` First 2 C
6 BIO191 Introductory
Practical
100 First 1 C

-- 276 of 377 --

277
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Biology I
7 CHM10
1
Introductory
Inorganic
Chemistry I
100 First 2 C
8 CHM10
3
Introductory
Physical
Chemistry
100 First 2 C
9 CHM19
1
Introductory
Chemistry
Practical I
100 First 1 C
Total Credit
Units
16
( b ) 100 Level Second Semester
S/
N
Course
Code
Course Title Leve
l
Semeste
r
Credit
Unit(s
)
Statu
s
1 GST
102
Use of English
and
Communicatio
n Skills II
100 Second 2 C
2 EDU112 Professionalis
m in Teaching
100 Second 2 C
3 EDU114 History of
Education
100 Second 2 C
4 BIO102 General
Biology II
100 Second 2 C
5 BIO192 General
Practical
Biology II
100 Second 1 C
6 CHM19
2
Introduction
to Practical
Chemistry II
100` Second 2 C
8 CIT132 Programming
in Basics
100 Second 2 C

-- 277 of 377 --

278
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Total Credit
Units
13
( c ) 200 Level First Semester
S/N Course
Code
Course Title Level Semester Credit
Unit(s)
Status
1 GST 201 Nigeria
Peoples and
Culture
200 First 2 C
2 GST203 Introduction
to Philosophy
and Logic
200 First 2 C
3 EDU231 Curriculum
Theory and
Practice
200 First 2 C
4 EDU233 General
Teaching
Methods
200 First 2 C
5 SOS201 Principles of
Soil Science
200 First 2 C
6 AGR201 General
Agriculture
200 First 2 C
7 AEM201 Principles of
Agricultural
Extension
200 First 2 C
8 BIO201 Genetics I 200 First 2 C
10 AGR202 Introductory
Agricultural
Engineering
200 First 2 C
11 AGR203 Principles of
Crop
Production
200 First 2 C
Total Credit
Units
20

-- 278 of 377 --

279
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
( d ) 200 Level Second Semester
S/
N
Course
Code
Course Title Leve
l
Semeste
r
Credit
Unit(s
)
Statu
s
1 EDU280 Agricultural
Science
Methods
200 Second 2 C
2 EDU212 Sociology of
Education
200 Second 2 C
3 EDU214 Philosophy of
Education
200 Second 2 C
5 AEM212 Farm Practice 200 Second 2 C
6 BIO220 Fisheries and
Wildlife
200 Second 2 C
7 GST202 Fundamental
s of Peace
Study and
Conflict
Resolution
200 Second 2 C
8 CHM20
3
Organic
Chemistry II
200 Second 2 C
9 AFS202 Principles Of
Food Science
and
Technology
200 Second 3 C
10 AEM202 Principles of
Rural
Sociology
2 C
Total Credit
Units
19
( e ) 300 Level First Semester
S/
N
Course
Code
Course Title Leve
l
Semeste
r
Credit
Unit(s
)
Statu
s
1 EDU321 Psychology of
Learning
300 First 2 C

-- 279 of 377 --

280
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
2 GST301 Entrepreneuria
l Studies
300 First 2 C
3 ACP305 Principles of
Crop
Protection
300 First 2 C
4 EDU323 Basic
Research
Methods in
Education
300 First 2 C
5 EDU335 Teaching
Practice I
300 First 3 C
7 ANP313 Poultry
Production
300 First 2 C
8 ACP303 Permanent
Crop
Production
300 First 2 C
9 SOS301 Introduction
to Pedology
and Soil
Classification
300 First 2 C
10 ANP301 Introduction
to Non-
Ruminant
Animal Mgt
300 First 2 C
11 AEM30
2
Extension,
Teaching,
Learning
Process And
Methods
300 First 2 C
Total Credit
Units
21
( f ) 300 Level Second Semester
S/
N
Course
Code
Course Title Leve
l
Semeste
r
Credit
Unit(s
)
Statu
s
1 EDU332 Educational
Technology
300 Second 2 C

-- 280 of 377 --

281
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
2 EDU314 Comparative
Education
300 Second 2 C
3 EDU336 Post Teaching
Practice
Evaluation
and Feedback
300 Second 2 C
4 SED305 Practicum in
Science
Education
300 Second 2 C
5 AEC308 Principles Of
Farm
Management
300 Second 2 C
6 AEC306 Farm Records
and
Accounting
300 Second 2 C
7 AGM31
4
Introduction
to Farm
Mechanisatio
n
300 Second 2 C
9 ANP302 Ruminant
Animal
Production
300 Second 2 C
10 EDU300 SIWES I 300 Second 3 C
Total Credit
Units
19
( g ) 400 Level First Semester
S/N Course
Code
Course Title Level Semester Credit
Unit(s)
Status
1 EDU421 Guidance and
Counselling
400 First 2 C
2 EDU423 Measurement
and
Evaluation
400 First 2 C
3 EDU435 Teaching
Practice II
400 First 3 C

-- 281 of 377 --

282
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
4 AEM303 Agrarian
Institutions
Management
400 First 3 C
6 AEM451 Farm
Business
Organisation
400 First 3 C
7 EDU400 SIWES II 400 First 3 C
Total Credit
Units
16
( h ) 400 Level Second Semester
S/N Course
Code
Course Title Level Semester Credit
Unit(s)
Status
1 EDU412 Principles of
Educational
Management
400 Second 2 C
2 EDU420 Research
Project
400 Second 6 C
3 EDU426 Special
Education
400 Second 2 C
4 AEC403 Agric
Production
Economics
and
Resources
400 Second 3 C
5 AEM405 Extension,
Training and
Curriculum
Development
400 Second 3 C
Total Credit
Units
16
Course Content Specification
GST 101: Use Of English and Communication Skills I (2 C)
Listening enabling skills, listening and comprehending
comprehension, note taking and information retrieval. Including data,

-- 282 of 377 --

283
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
figures, diagrams and charts. Listening for main idea, interpretation
and critical evaluation. Effective reading. Skimming and scanning.
Reading and comprehension at various speed levels. Vocabulary
development in various academic contexts. Reading diverse texts in
narratives and expository. Reading and comprehension passages with
tables, scientific texts. Reading for interpretation and critical
evaluation.
GST 102: Use Of English and Communication Skills II (2 C)
Writing paragraphs: Topic sentence and coherence. Development of
paragraphs: illustration, Description, cause and effect including
definitions. Formal letters; essential parts and stylistic forms,
complaints and requests; jobs, ordering goods, letters to government
and other organisations. Writing reports; reporting event,
experiments. Writing summaries: techniques of summarising letters
and sounds in English, vowels and consonants. Interviews, seminar
presentation, public speech making, articles, concord and sentences
including tenses. Gerund, participles, active, passive and the
infinitive. Modal auxiliaries.
GST 105: History and Philosophy of Science (2 C)
Nature of science, scientific methods and theories, law of nature,
history of science, lost sciences of African, science, technology and
inventions, nature and scope of philosophy in science, man, nature
and his origin, man, environment and resources, Great Nigerian
Scientists.
GST 107: The Good Study Guide (2 C)
Getting Started: How to use the book, why read about study skills,
getting yourself organized, what is studying all about, reading and
note-taking: introduction, reactions to reading, your reading strategy,
memory, taking notes, conclusion. Other ways of studying:
Introduction, learning in groups, talks and lectures, learning from T.V
and Radio broadcasts, other study media. Working with numbers:
Getting to know numbers, describing the world, describing the tables,
describing with diagrams and graphs, what is good writing? The
importance of writing, what does an essay look like, what is a good
essay, conclusion. How to write essays: Introduction, the craft of

-- 283 of 377 --

284
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
writing, the advantages of treating essay writing as a craft, making
your essay flow, making a convincing case, the experience of writing.
Preparing for examination.
GST 201: Nigerian People and Culture
The Culture and Peoples of Southern and Northern Nigeria in Pre-
colonial Times, The Dynamics of the Evolution of Nigeria as a
Political Unit, The Culture of the Niger Delta; Rain Forest; Guinea
and the Sudan Savanna Regions of Nigeria, A Historical Analysis of
Education and National Development, Economy and National
Development, Religion and National Development in Nigeria. A
Historical Analysis of Moral and Socio-political Rights of Citizens,
Social Justice and National Development in Nigeria.
GST 202: Fundamentals Of Peace Studies and Conflict
Resolution
Basic Understanding of Conflict; Definitions, Causes and Types of
Conflict, Conflict Theories, Phases in Conflict, Conflict Analysis and
Transformation. Dynamics of Conflict; Relationship between
Perception and Conflict, Language Barriers in Conflict and
Resolution, Early Warning and Early Response Mechanism, Arms
Control and Demilitarisation, Peace and Education. Trends in Global
Issues: International, Continental and Regional Organisations in the
Pursuance of World Peace, Peaceful Methods of Conflict Resolution,
Coercive Means of Conflict Resolution, Gender Issues and
Humanitarian Intervention.
GST 203: Introduction to Philosophy and Logic
Definition and Scope of Philosophy, Philosophy as the Parent
Discipline, Branches of Philosophy, Philosophy and Other
Disciplines, Sources of Knowledge and Criteria for Knowing.
Definition and Scope of Logic, Logic’s Vocabulary, Valid, Invalid,
Deductive and Inductive Arguments, Language and its Functions.
Fallacies, Definitions, Categorical Propositions, Syllogisms,
Symbolising in Logic, Truth Table Analysis, Logical Proofs of
Validity Using Truth Tables, Rules of Inference and Argument
Forms, Laws of Thought.

-- 284 of 377 --

285
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
GST 301: Entrepreneurship Studies
Definition of Entrepreneurship, Relationship Between
Entrepreneurship and Small Business Management, Factors of
Entrepreneurship; Dealing with External Factors of Entrepreneurship;
Factors of Production; Profit and Other Objectives of an
Entrepreneur, the Business Environment, Understanding Viability
Study; Needs and Characteristics of Consumers; Mission and
Enterprise Objectives; Export Market Shares; Target Market; Income
Determination; Break-even Point, Size of the Business, Location
Factors; Financial Requirements Forms of Ownership; Business Plan.
Risk Analysis; Legal Requirements; Staffing, Purchasing; Production;
Management.
CIT 101: Computers in Society
What is Computer, Elements of a Computer: Hardware and Software,
How to Work with a Computer, Operating Systems, and Files. Word
Processing: Introduction to Word Processing, Word Processing
Program Facilities, Copying text, Saving Changes, and Formatting.
Spreadsheet: Entering and Correcting Data, Using Formula, Numeric
Formats, Creating Charts, Charts from Non-adjacent Data, Embedded
Charts, Charts Links and Chart Types. PowerPoint and Presentations:
Presentation Screen, Creating New Presentations, Naming
Presentations, Saving Presentations and Formatting Slides, Using
Auto-shapes. Networking, Internet and Electronic mail.
EDU111: Introduction to Foundations of Education (2 C)
Philosophical and psychological perspective, philosophy of
education, meaning and relevance, equality of educational
opportunity, psychology of education, introduction to learning
theories, readiness to learning, motivation and its relation to learning,
transfer of learning, historical and sociological perspective, concept
and nature of education, types of education, the growth of education
in Nigeria, educational trends in Nigeria, innovations in education,
the status of teachers in Nigeria, education and society, social class
and educational opportunity, factors that influence education.

-- 285 of 377 --

286
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
EDU 112: PROFESSIONALISM IN TEACHING (2 C)
Concepts and issues in teaching, concepts of teaching and
professionalism, history of teaching in Nigeria, professional growth
of teachers, educating the educators, professional studies programs
for teachers, the teacher and the child, why teachers should care, the
making of ideal teacher, qualities of an ideal teacher, the role of the
teacher, the Nigerian Union of Teachers (NUT), the role of Parent
Teachers Association (PTA), the subject teachers association, the
status of teachers in Nigeria, strategies for making teaching a
profession
EDU 114: History of Education in Nigeria (2 C)
Nigeria traditional education, higher education in traditional society,
Islamic education in Nigeria, in Nigeria, the early missionaries and
the development of education in Nigeria, colonial government
involvement in Nigeria Education 1872 – 1882, Education
Ordinances 1887 – 1916, the impact of Phelps – Stokes Commission
on Education in Northern Nigeria, Secondary Education from 1859 –
1929, Higher Education, The National Curriculum Conference and
the National Policy on Education.
CHM 111: Introduction to Inorganic Chemistry (2 C)
Hypothesis, theory and law with appropriate illustrations. Nature of
matter – 3 states of matter, atomic structures, electronic energy levels
and orbitals. Periodic classification of elements and its relationship to
their electronic configuration. Chemical bonding, survey of
properties and trends in groups I, II, IV, V & VII metal
CHM 191: Introductory Practical Chemistry I (2 Units)
Practical based of CHM 101 and CHM 103: Cations and anions –
identification, Acid- base titrations, Redox reactions and
determinations.

-- 286 of 377 --

287
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
CHM 102: Introductory Organic Chemistry (2 Units)
Simple reactions of hydrocarbons, alcohols, and acids. Petroleum
chemistry, Oils and fats, hydrogenation of oils, polymer and
biologically important molecule.
CHM 104: Introductory General Chemistry (2units)
Units and measurements in chemistry, the atomic theory, quantum
theory and meachanics. Electronic configuration of the elements,
chemical bonding. Gaseous, liquid and solid states. Energy term,
chemical kinetics, Redox reaction, acid and bases, ionic equilibrium,
coordination complexes, extraction of element
MTH 121: Linear Algebra I (2 C)
Definition of a matrix and types of matrices; equality of matrices;
transpose of a matrix;; Hermittan matric; Skew Hermittan; Matrix
Algebra; Properties of matrix addition; Scalar multiplication; matrix
multiplication. Linear equations; linear equation in two unknowns;
General systems of linear equations. Determinants of 2 X 2 matrix;
Determinants of 3 X 3 matrix; properties of determinants; Inverse of
matrices; Inverse of a square matrices; Inverse of a non – singular 2X
2 matrix; Inverse of a # X 3 square matrices; Invertible matrices and
determinants; Row Echelon form and system of equations; solving
systems of equation by row; Reduced Echelon from; Determinant and
systems of equations; Transformation of the plane; some properties of
transformation; Vector spaces; Definitions; Subspacks; ranks of a
matrix linear dependence; Basic of vector; Wronkian of functions.
BIO 102: General Biology II (2 Units)
Systematic studies of diversity of life including monera, protista,
plants (Algae, Fungi, Bryophytes, Pteridophytes, Gymnosperms and
angiosperms) and animals (Protozoa, Platyhelminthes, Annelids,
Arthropods, Fishes, Amphibians, Reptiles, Birds and Mammals)
based on similarities and differences in external morphology.
Taxonomic divisions of plant and animal kingdoms. Ecological
adaptations of these forms.

-- 287 of 377 --

288
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
BIO191: General Biology Practical I (2 Units)
What practical work in biology involves. Laboratory organisation.
Handling common laboratory equipment. Microscopic handling and
maintenance. Making microscopic measurements. Procuring animal
materials for practicals. Killing, preserving and maintaining animal
materials. Procuring plant materials. External features of plants
(differences and similarities).Preparation of temporary slides.
Preparation of stains and reagents. Techniques for microbial culture
and grain staining. Setting up demonstration for physiological
processes in plants. Setting up apparatus for demonstrating
physiological processes in animals. Preparation required for
dissection.
BIO 192: General Biology Laboratory II (2 Units)
Observation and description of the morphological and diagnostic
features as well as the differences among the different phyla of the
plant, animal, archebacteria, eubacteria, fungi and protista kingdoms.
Identification of the taxonomic hierarchy of the members of the above
groups. Study of the structure and functions of their parts and habitats
specifications
CHM 132: Introduction to Organic Chemistry (2 C)
Simple reactions of hydrocarbons, alcohols and acids, petroleum
chemistry, oils and fats. Hydrogenation of oils. Polymer and
biological important molecules.
MTH 102: Introductory Statistics (2 C)
Measures of central tendency and dispersion, (grouped and
ungrouped); mean: - arithmetic and geometric, harmonic, median,
mode quartiles, deciles, modes, relative and absolute dispersion,
sample space and events as sets. Finite probability space properties
of probability. Statistical independence and conditional probability.
Tree diagram. Bayes theorem. Discrete and continuous random
variables. Expectation, independent Bernoulli trials. Binomial Poisson
and Normal distributions. Normal approximation to binomial and
Poisson distribution, Hyper geometric.

-- 288 of 377 --

289
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
EDU 231: Curriculum Development Theory and Practice (2
C)
History of Curriculum Development in Nigeria: The importance of
curriculum, Curriculum Development and/or Improvement in a
developing country like Nigeria, Participants in Curriculum Planning:
- Levels of Planning, Approaches to Planning, Curriculum
Decisions:- Different Stages of Curriculum Decision, The 1969
National Curriculum Conference as a Case Study, Force affecting
Curriculum Decisions, Aims and Objectives of Nigeria Education,
Selection of Learning Experience:-
Criteria for Selection, Programme of Studies Programme of
Activities, Programme of Guidance, Organisation of Learning
Experience:- Traditional Organisation of Curriculum, New
Dimension in Organisation. Evaluation:- Evaluation of Educational
Programmes, Formative Evaluation (Action Research), Summative
Evaluation, Evaluation of the Achievement of the Individual in the
Programme:-
Guidance – oriented Evaluation, Selection – oriented Evaluation
EDU 212: Sociology of Education (2 C)
Definition of Sociology, Education and Pedagogy from Sociological
Perspective, Education and Society, Theory of Knowledge, Principles
of the Sociology of Knowledge, Socialization:- Culture and
Personality, Education and Social Frame Work:- The Family and
Education, Education and Social Stratification – the Nigeria Elites,
Education and Social Values, Moral Education in Changing Society;
Education, Social Justice and the Teacher, Equality in Education,
Freedom in Education. The Social Functions of Education –
Education and Social Change, Education and Social Economic
Development, The Political function of Education, The Sociology of
Teaching:- The Teacher and his Role; The Reluctant Learner, The
Teacher in the Classroom, Social Relations in the School.
EDU 233: General Teaching Methods (2 C)
The Teacher and the Child, How children learn, Professional attitudes
and understanding of learners, The aims of the Teaching, The Stages

-- 289 of 377 --

290
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
In Lesson Preparation:- The Syllabus, The Scheme of work, Lesson
Notes; Steps in preparation of notes, The problem of time –table.
General Teaching Methods:- Induction Method, Deduction Method,
Induction and Deduction Methods, The Lecture Method, Dramatic
Method, Questioning and Problem Methods, The Project Methods,
Activities in the Lesson, The Art of Classroom Management:-
Qualities of a good teacher, Some common bad habits to avoid,
Dealing with the problem of discipline in class. Questions and
Questioning, Students Natural Curiosity and Enquiry, Aims in
Questing, Questions in Classroom: The teacher’s questions, the
pupil’s questions, Guidelines for questioning. Testing and
Examinations, the purpose of testing, what to test, How and when to
test, Characteristics of a good test, types of tests, marks and
Assignments, Purpose of marking and assignments, Giving and
marking assignments, Awarding and assigning marks and grades,
methods of Study, Use of test book, Art of Note-Making,
Organisation of work, Revision and review of work, Physical
Environment of the classroom, Preparation for examination. Use of
Audio-Visual Aids, Importance of Audio-Visual in Teaching, Types
of Audio-visual Aids and their uses.
EDU214: Philosophy of Education (2 C)
Explaining concepts of education, (Aims: - goals, objectives, end,
means); Philosophy and philosophers; Curriculum: The nature of
education in Nigeria (metaphysics) – formal and informal education,
auxiliary education, Liberal and vocational education. Knowledge and
education in Nigeria – (Epistemology) Definitions of knowledge,
Types of knowledge; Knowledge by divine revelation, By institution
Prior knowledge, Posteriori knowledge, Need for knowledge in
modern Nigeria morality and education (axiology) Define concepts of
morality and education, Determinants of good education, Logic and
education, Logic and education; Inductive and Deductive methods of
teaching; Logic and curriculum planning, Logic and School
Administration; Discipline; Freedom, Determination and Free will.
AGR 201: General Agriculture (3 C)
The distribution of agriculture: World population and food supply,
history, scope and importance of agriculture to man. Agriculture and

-- 290 of 377 --

291
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
natural environment. Characteristic features of tropical agriculture
and how they affect production. Land use and tenure. Trends in the
production, distribution and utilisation of agricultural products.
Measures of improving Nigerian Agriculture Climatic edaphic and
social factors in relation to crop production and distribution in
Nigeria. Systems of crop farming. Types, distribution and
significance of farm animals; basic principles of animal farming.
Place of forestry, fish farming and wildlife in agriculture.
SOS 203: Introduction to Agro-Climatology (2 C)
The principles , aims and scope of climatology; The elements and
control of climate and weather and the dynamics of the earth’s
atmosphere; Radiation and heating of the atmospheric system,
atmospheric moisture, the dynamics of pressure and wind systems;
Condensation and precipitation processes; Season variations in
temperature, day length, radiation, rainfall and evapotranspiration;
Equipment and maintenance of standard metereological stations; The
tropical climatic: The relationship between agriculture and climate
with reference to crops, livestock, irrigation, pests and diseases.
AEM215: Agricultural Botany (2 C)
Microscope and its manipulation; introduction to plant taxonomy;
characteristics of the following crop families – Sreculiarae,
Malvaceae, Rubiaceae, Euphobiceae, Diocorreaceae, Mucaceae, and
Rutaceae; recognition of members of each family, factors of
environment and their effects on crop distribution in Nigeria:
Photosynthesis, transpiration; Nitrogen metabolism; growth
regulators and their relation to crop performance and yield.
AEC251: Principles of Micro-Economics I (2 C)
Price system and its limitations in resource allocation. Opportunity
cost; private versus social. The law of supply and demand. Concept
of Elasticity. Price theory and some applications; Equilibrium price
and stabilization programmes. Production cost and revenue
functions. The theory of production, consumption and resource
allocation, with emphasis on Agriculture.

-- 291 of 377 --

292
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
ANP 241: Anatomy And Physiology of Farm Animals (2 C)
Parts of the beef cattle, diary, sheep, goats, pigs, rabbits and poultry.
Fundamentals of cell biology. Anatomy and physiology of tissues-
tissues types; Anatomy and physiology of systems-system types
nervous skeletal, muscle, circulatory, reproductive , digestive and
other systems of farm animals; physiological functions of arm (farm)
animals-homo-eostatis, nutrition and digestion, respiration,
temperature regulation; The doctrine system in blood circulation,
lactation, milk let down, egg production, water balance, etc.
CHM 211: Introduction to Inorganic Chemistry II (2 C)
Chemistry of first row transition metals. Introduction to co-
ordination Chemistry including elementary treatment of crystal field
theory. Comparative Chemistry of the following elements:
(a) Ga, In, TI, (b) Ge, Sn, Pb, (c) As, Sb, Bi (d) Se, Te, Po.
Elementary introduction to Organometalic Chemistry. Role of metals
in biochemical Systems
AEM 202: Introduction to Rural Sociology (2 C)
Meaning, importance, and basic concepts and principles of rural
sociology. Rural versus urban living. Culture, cultural values and
cultural environment. Settlement patterns and village organisation.
Factors which influence rural living conditions. Types or rural
economics. Problems of developing rural economies. Rural
infrastructures. Major rural social institutions – marriage and family,
religion, politics. Social theories and interactions. General strategies
to rural development, role of communities. Social aspects of
production and marketing in the rural areas. Communication and
technological change in rural society.
ANP 202: Principles of Animal Production (2 C)
Animal production and its development. The livestock industry –
problems and prospects. Description of the breeds of cattle, sheep,
goats, pigs, poultry and rabbit. Systems of livestock production.
Feeding habit of farm animals. Principles of breeding and livestock
judging. General principles of management of the different types of
farm animals.

-- 292 of 377 --

293
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
AEM 212: Farm Practice (Practical) (3 C)
This will involve field planting. Each student will be allocated a field
plot for the planting and management of an arable crop. They will be
exposed to practical work in animal production and health.
(i) Crop Production techniques (Arable crops etc), crop
protection (pest and disease control) to acquire general
knowledge in field operation, seed bed preparation, sowing,
weeding and other cultural operations, harvesting and cost
analysis, raising of horticultural crops; transplanting
techniques, application of insecticides, fungicides and
herbicides. Collection and identification of weeds in
horticultural crops.
(ii) Animal husbandry techniques cattle, sheep, goats, poultry,
pigs and rabbits and health management – general husbandry
practices of the above animals. Techniques of feeding
different classes of livestock, feed formulation, feed
processing and preservations and food analysis. Hatching
management, simple identification techniques, castration,
dehorning, debeaking and milking parlour management and
milking techniques. Livestock farm planning, layout, housing
fencing and provision of water.
(iii) Extension practices: How to conduct plot demonstration, farm
adoptive research, fortnightly training for extension agents,
communication processes. How to conduct farm meeting,
brain storming, focus group discussion, small group
discussion, interview methods, production of hand bills,
leaflet, bulletin board etc, film projector slide, film projector.
Trips to MANR, ADP, AGRO-Service centres and
information collection. Use of other mass media (TV and
Radio) for farmers’ awareness
AFS 202: Principles of Food Science and Technology (3 C)
Definition and scope of food science and technology. Food
distribution and marketing. Food and its functions. Food habits. Food

-- 293 of 377 --

294
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
poisoning and its prevention. Principles of food processing and
preservation. Discussion of different preservation methods.
Deterioration and spoilage of foods, other post harvest changes in
food. Contamination of foods from natural source. Composition and
structures of Nigeria/West African food; factors contributing to
texture, colour, aroma and flavour of food. Cost; traditional and
ethnic influences of food preparation and consumption pattern.
CHM 232: Introduction to Organic Chemistry II (2 C)
Factors affecting structure and physical properties of organic
compounds; factors affecting availability of electrons, stereo-
chemistry; energy of activation and free radical substitution reactions
in alkenes. Functional group chemistry. Electrophillic and
nucleophillic substitution reactions. Aromaticity. Various type of
organic reactions; e.g. addition, free radical, elimination and
substitution reactions.
AEM246: Youth Organisations in Agriculture(2 C)
History, objectives and types of youth organisations in agriculture e.g.
young farmers club in young foresters, future farmers of Nigeria, etc.
Comparative analysis of youth organisations in cities, urban and rural
settings. Roles of youths in farming families and settlements.
Problems and prospects of retaining youths in rural communities.
Roles of members, patrons, advisers, volunteers, etc. in organisations.
Youth organisations and clubs in school management. State, regional
and national oganisations in agriculture.
EDU 321: Psychology of Learning (2 C)
Definitions of psychology & learning; Theories of learning and the
theorists levels of motivation and implication for education; Memory
and forgetting, Types of memory, Method of improving memory,
Types of forgetting, Factors influencing forgetting, Implication for
education; Cognitive theory of learning; Reinforcement and
punishment and classroom application; Behaviourism, Contributions
of behavioral psychologists and classroom application; Transfer of
learning and classroom application, S – R theory of Thorndike –
Skinner, Meaning of S – R, The Laws of readiness, Exercise and
effect; Punishment; Classroom application.

-- 294 of 377 --

295
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
EDU 332: Educational Technology (2 C)
Definition of Instructional Technology, its Philosophy, Terminology,
Roles of Instructional Technology in the Learning Process, The
experience, Theory of Learning, learning and Communication in the
classroom, Learning has changed behaviour, The teacher’s
responsibilities, Selecting and using materials and media in
Instructional, Visual aids, Non-projected aids, Projectors, Projected
aids, Audio-visual aids, Creating Instructional Materials, Duplicators,
Equipment Operation, projection, Recording.
EDU 323: Basic Research Methods (2 C)
Meaning of Research; Scientific method of research, Selection of the
topic, Subjects etc for research; Purposes of research studies;
Guidelines in selection of topics, Preparing a research proposal,
Statement of the problem; Determination of data required;
Hypothetical conclusions and implication, Collecting information and
data; Observation and interview methods, Basic consideration in data
collection; The correspondence method; Analysis and interpretation
of Data; Basic statistical concept and Their Computation, Designs of
Experiments:- Basic types of errors; Simple Randomised Design,
Random – Replications Design; Groups- within – Treatment design;
Treatment of extra venous variables, Scaling Problems and
Techniques:- Rating Scales, Rank-order Scales, etc, Determination of
Scale Value
EDU 314: Comparative Education (3 C)
Scope and meaning of education, examination of significant
differences and similarities in education policy and practices in
selected societies, problems of educational development in
developing countries.
EDU 335: Teaching Practice I (3 C)
Students learn through practical experience how to teach particular
subjects, manage a classroom and the functions of a good teacher.
FRM 422: Forest and Wildlife Extension Education (2 C)
Management interpretation to include methods and techniques for
communicating of forestry, parks, game reserve and other wild lands;

-- 295 of 377 --

296
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
the role of the extension agents in providing organisational and
administrative support in forestry; training programmes for extension
workers in forestry and wildlife.
AEM 458: Extension Strategies in Pilot Rural Development
Projects (3C)
Objectives of pilot projects for coordinating scientists, official and
non-official agencies, local people, purchase and distribution of input,
marketing, training of staff and local people and their organisation
building development models
SED 305: Practicum in Science Teaching (2C)
Students are expected to carry out activities in their respective areas
of specialisation as stated below.
Agric Practicum
Activities in Farm tools & Machinery, Methods in Farm Surveying,
Management of Farm Animals, Construction of Egg candler &
candling, Soil and Soil experiments, Rocks & Rock Formation,
Floriculture .
Biology Practicum
Activities on Microscopy cell division, Construction of quadrat,
Ecosystem, Improvisation of necessary instrument in Biology e.g.
Rain gauge, ACC paper wind vane etc. Activities on genetical
principles, Construction of Herbarium, Staffing of Animals,
Skeleton.
Physics Practicum
Activities on Graphs and Data handling, Activity on measurement of
Mass, Experiment on Mechanics, Experiments on light.
Chemistry Practicum
Activities on separation Techniques, Preparation of standard
solutions, Activities on volumetric Analysis, Qualitative analysis,
Test for gases activities on Identification of rations.

-- 296 of 377 --

297
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Integrated Science Practicum
Activities on Microscopy, Improvisation of an ecosystem, Activities
on Energy transformation, Simple machines, Thermo dynamics, Test
for gases, Separation techniques, Activities on Volumetric Analysis.
Mathematics Practicum
Improvisation of Abacus Counters
Using improvised materials to teach shapes such as triangle, circle
square etc.
Using simple games to teach elementary mathematics.
Computer Science Practicum
Activities on computer games, Improvising computer, Activities on
computer virus.
Note: The activities for each of the sciences listed above will include
post teaching practice
discussion and remediation (EDU336).
EDU 336: Post Teaching Practice Evaluation/Remediation
(2C)
The student is required to write a comprehensive report on his/her
experiences in practical implementation of teaching/learning
strategies in the classroom as applied to the subject area. The report
should include:
• Challenges encountered during the teaching practice;
• The lesson notes used during the teaching practice;
• Assessment questions as well as the marking guides used;
• Assessment of teaching practice supervision by the supervisor,
and
• Suggestions for improvement.
The report should be submitted by the student to the Dean through the
Study Centre Director for:
• Evaluation
• Feedback, and

-- 297 of 377 --

298
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
• Remediation.
The result of the overall process should be communicated to the
student from the Dean through the Study Centre Director.
ANP301: Introduction to Non-Ruminant Animal Management
(2C)
Management of breeding stocks, growing and young animals.
Housing, equipment and feeding principles of poultry, rabbits and
pigs. Production and management practices, livestock Economics,
Health management of stock, processing and marketing of poultry.
ACP 301: Arable Crop Production (2 C)
Origin, distribution, soil and climatic requirements of cereals,
legumes, root crops, fibre crops, vegetables and other important
animals crops in Nigeria. Improved varieties. Production practices,
harvesting, utilisation, processing, storage and economic aspects of
some selected arable crops.
ACP 305: Principles of Crop Protection (2 C)
The major pests, insects, fungi, bacteria, viruses and nematodes,
weeds and other diseases of tropical crops and stored products.
Definition of pests. Study of insects of major local crops, their
significance and principles of control. Study of the effects of diseases
causes by virus; bacteria, fungi nematodes. Control of these disease.
Effect of weeds on crops and livestock and the principles and
methods of control or weed. Brief outline, shortcomings and
advantages of different pest assessment and pest control methods.
Strategies of integrated pest control and pest management.
ANP 302: Ruminant Animal Production (2 C)
Management of breeding stock, growing and young animal, Housing
equipment and feeding principles of cattle, sheep and goats.
Production and management practices. Health management of
ruminant animals. Products.

-- 298 of 377 --

299
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
AEC 308: Principles of Farm Management (2 C)
Nature and scope of farm management. Basic principles of farm
management. Special characteristics of agriculture that affect
management decisions. The decision making functions of farm
manager. The common concepts and tools in management: - law of
diminishing returns, farm cost, valuation, depreciation as they affect
the farmer. The literate versus illiterate farmer in carrying out farm
management functions.
AEC 306: Farm Records and Accounting (2 C)
Scope of farm records and accounting, and their objectives, Basic
concepts of accounting. Principles of book-keeping and accounting,
kings, functions of farm records and accounts. Concepts of trial
balance and final accounts.
CPS 313: Basic Soil Science (2 C)
Soil formation; rocks and minerals; physical composition of soils; soil
texture; soil structure; soil water section; soil moisture retention
curve; concept of available water; movement of water in the soil;
measurements of dynamic soil physical properties; importance and
characteristics of alunminosilate clays and organic colloids; cations
and anions exchange; sources of charge in soil colloids; cations
exchange capacity; soil PH; exchange and reserve acidity; principles
of limming; soil organisations
EDU 421: Guidance and Counseling (2 C)
Meaning, Purpose and Development of Guidance and Counseling,
The services of a School Guidance programme; - The individual
appraisal service. Information needed for the analysis of the
individual, collection of information (test, inventories etc).
Organising recording and filing information; Use of recorded
information; Information service:- Vocational Education and Personal
Social Information, Methods of obtaining and Disseminating
information; The Counseling Service:- Nature, Purpose and Theories
of Counseling; The Counsellor and the counseling process, The
Placement Service in School and out-of School placement, follow up
studies; Purposes of and procedures in follow-up studies, Problems in
Guidance and counseling:- Values and attitude orientation, Guidance

-- 299 of 377 --

300
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
as Classroom or Specialist Centered, Guidance as Direction or
Developments, Problems of Social change, Relation with other
Personnel and Services:-Counsellor and School Administration,
Relationship with teachers, Extra – School Relationship, Working
with Parents and Making Referential, Guidance:- Organisation and
Implementation, Preparation of Occupational, Information,
Practicum; Preparing and using Cumulative records.
EDU 412: Educational Management (2 C)
Define educational administration, Educational law and the control of
Education in Nigeria, The organisation of the Ministry of Education
and the function of boards of education, the Nigerian Educational
system, the school and the community, Bureaucracy and decision
making in educational administration, human relations in Educational
administration, Educational Leadership, the role of the principal, staff
personnel administration, supervision of instruction, Admission
Procedures, Student’s records and reports, Student’s discipline and
welfare, Student organisation and participation in School
Administration, Principle of planning, School finance and accounting
system, School routine and time table, The school plant and facilities,
Examinations and the problems of academic standards, Evaluation
and school inspection.
EDU 423: Measurement and Evaluation (2 C)
Definition and purpose of Measurement and Evaluation, Importance
of Tests in Education; Validity of Tests in Educational Achievement;
Functions of classroom tests, Criteria for effective testing, Problems
of tests construction; Measurement of educational outcomes,
Behavioral cognitive and non-cognitive of education, Pupils
characteristics to be measured, Types of tests, Essay and objective
type tests advantages and disadvantages of each, when to use each of
them. Tests Administration and Scoring, Judging the Quality of a
Classroom test, Estimating, Interpreting and improving reliability of
test, Validity of Classroom Tests, Problem of Marking Tests, and
Quality Control in Marking System.

-- 300 of 377 --

301
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
EDU 420: Research Project (4 C)
An application of the research methods and data processing course to
a field experience under the guidance of a selected facilitator.
EDU 426: Special Education (2 C)
The course x–rays the concept of special education, its definition and
origins. It examines integration, inclusion, and individualised
education programme within the context of special education.
Giftedness, its meaning, and causes as well as case studies of the
gifted. The education of gifted children. Hearing impairment and
educational considerations for the deaf. Visual impairment, its causes
and history. Educational considerations for visually impaired
children.
EDU 435: Teaching Practice II (3 C)
A minimum of six weeks supervised exposure to classroom teaching
on field experience to demonstrate the degree of proficiency in
applying some of the basic theories of instruction.
AEM 405: Extension Training and Curriculum Development
(3 C)
Meaning of extension training, importance of extension in agricultural
development; objectives of the different types of training (e.g. pre-
service and in-service training) programmes for different categories
of extension personnel. Method of extension training, farmers.
Training; programmes; curriculum development processes;
organisation of the causes and evaluation of training programmes.
AEM 411: Social Relationships and Behavioural Change (3 C)
Social relationship as an analytical unit in agricultural extension
system, social relationship as an indicator of individuals and groups,
innovation process, major theories of behavioural change in
agriculture, programme planning.
AEM 405: Extension Training and Curriculum Development
(3 Units)
Meaning of extension training, importance of extension in agricultural
development; objectives of the different types of training (e.g. pre-

-- 301 of 377 --

302
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
service and in-service training) programmes for different categories
of extension personnel. Methods of extension training, farmers.
Training; programmes; curriculum development processes;
organization of the causes and evaluation of training programmes.
AEM 411: Social Relationships and Behavioural Change (3
Units)
Social relationship as an analytical unit in agricultural extension
system, social relationship as an indicator of individuals and groups,
innovation process, major theories of behavioural change in
agriculture, programme planning.
AGE 419: Seminar in Agriculture (2 C)
Each student is expected to prepare and prepare a seminar.
Instruction on the preparation, presentation and discussion of critical
reviews of topics important to agriculture. This is to be followed by
students’ presentation of reviews prepared by them.
AGE421: Teaching Vocational Agriculture (2 C)
History of vocation agricultural in Nigeria, developing a course of
study and programme of work, preparing teaching plans, methods of
teaching vocational agriculture, young and adult farmer courses in
schools, organizations and supervision of unit and school supervision
of agricultural unit and school farm, and development of public
relations, practical teaching in neighbouring schools.
AEC 402: Economics of Cooperatives (3 C)
Cooperatives as a form of business; purpose and advantages of
cooperatives to agriculture; comparison of other business with
cooperatives business; cooperatives theory; historical evolution of
cooperative structure and organisation of cooperatives in agriculture;
management of cooperatives.
ANP 424: Pasture and Range Management (2 C)
The place of pasture in the Nigerian agricultural economy;
introduction to the vegetation belts of Nigeria with emphasis on the
vegetation belt. Agronomy and identification of native (natural)
pasture plants and adapted (introduced ) ones (grasses and legumes);

-- 302 of 377 --

303
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
geographical distribution of natural pastures in Nigeria; principles of
plant introduction; pasture establishment; management and
evaluation; factors affecting the nutritive value of forages and forage
intake; forage conservation and grazing management of pastures.
B.Sc. (Ed) Biology
Graduation Requirements
To be eligible for the award of the BSc. (Ed.) Biology, a student must
have passed a minimum of 134 and 96 credit units for the four- year
and three-year degree programmes respectively. That is:
 For a four-year degree course, a minimum of 134 units should
be required for graduation.
 For a direct three-year course, a minimum of 96 units should
be required for graduation.
 At the commencement of the programme, each student is
furnished with the information specifying the requirements for
the award of the degree.
 Students must pass all core and GST courses.
Table 15: B.Sc. (Ed) Biology
(a) Year 1 First Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit(s)
Status
BIO 101 General Biology 1 2 C
BIO 191 General Practical Biology 1 2 C
PHY101 Elementary Mechanics, Heat and
Properties of Matter
3 C
EDU
111
Foundations of Education 2 C
GST
101
Use of English and
Communication Skills I
2 C
GST
107 The Good Study Guide 2 C
CIT 101 Computers in Society 2 C
CHM
191
Introductory Practical Chemistry 1 2 C

-- 303 of 377 --

304
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Total 17
(b) Year 1 Second Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit
Status
BIO 102 General Biology II 2 C
CHM
103
Introduction to Physical Chemistry I 2 C
PHY102 Electricity, Magnetism Modern
Physics
3 C
BIO 192 General Biology Practical II 2 C
GST 102 Use of English and Communication
Skills II
2 C
EDU
114
History of Education in Nigeria 2 C
EDU
112
Professionalism in Teaching 2 C
CHM
102
Introductory Organic Chemistry I 2 C
CHM
106
Introductory General Chemistry 2 C
CHM192 Introductory Chemistry Practical II 1 C
PHY192 Introductory Physics Laboratory II 1 C
Total 21
( c ) Year II First Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit(s)
Status
GST
201
Nigerian Peoples and Culture 2 C
EDU
231
Curriculum Theory and Practice 2 C
EDU
233
General Teaching Methods 2 C
BIO
203
General Physiology I 2 C
BIO Genetics I 2 C

-- 304 of 377 --

305
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
201
BIO
209
Chordates 3 C
CHM
203
Organic Chemistry II 2 C
BIO
207
Lower in Vertebrates 2 C
CHM
201
Physical Chemistry II 2 C
CHM
205
Inorganic Chemistry II 2 C
Total 21
(d )Year II Second Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit (s)
Status
GST
203
Introduction to Philosophy and
Logic
2 C
GST
202
Fundamentals of Peace and Conflict
Resolution
2 C
EDU
250
Subject Methods I (Biology) 2 C
ESM
112
Introductory Ecology 2 C
BIO
204
Biological Techniques 2 C
EDU
212 Sociology of Education 2 C
EDU
214 Philosophy of Education 2 C
BIO
208
Seedless Plants 2 C
BIO
210
Seed Plants 2 C
Total 18

-- 305 of 377 --

306
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
(e)YearIII First Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit (s)
Status
EDU
335
Teaching Practice I 3 C
GST
301
Entrepreneurship Studies 2 C
EDU
321
Psychology of Learning 2 C
EDU
323
Basic Research Methods in
Education
2 C
BIO
301
Genetics II 2 C
BIO
303
General Cytology 2 C
BIO
305
Molecular Biology 2 C
Total 15
( f) Year III Second Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit (s)
Status
EDU
332
Educational Technology 2 C
EDU
314
Comparative Education 2 C
EDU
336
Post Teaching Practice Evaluation 2 C
BIO
304
General Ecology 2 C
SED
305
Practicum in Science Teaching 2 C
BIO
306
General Physiology II 2 C
BIO
307
Evolution 2 C
BIO
311
Mycology 2 C

-- 306 of 377 --

307
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Total 16
( g ) Year IV First Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit(s)
Status
EDU
421
Guidance and Counselling 2 C
EDU
423
Measurement and Evaluation 2 C
EDU
435
Teaching Practice II 3 C
BIO
403
Population Genetics 2 C
BIO
408
Soil Ecology 2 C
BIO
413
Developmental Biology 2 C
Total 13
( h) Year VI Second Semester
Course
Code
Course Title Credit
Unit(s)
Status
EDU
412
Principles of Educational
Management
2 C
EDU
420
Research Project 4 C
EDU426 Special Education 2 C
BIO 413 Developmental Biology 2 C
Bio 412 Wildlife Ecology and Conservation 3 C
Total 13
 Students must offer a maximum of 30 credit units.

-- 307 of 377 --

308
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Course Content Specification
GST 101: Use of English and Communication Skills I (2C)
Listening enabling skills, listening and comprehending
comprehension, note taking and information retrieval. Including data,
figures, diagrams and charts. Listening for main idea, interpretation
and critical evaluation. Effective reading. Skimming and scanning.
Reading and comprehension at various speed levels. Vocabulary
development in various academic contexts. Reading diverse texts in
narratives and expository. Reading and comprehension passages with
tables, scientific texts. Reading for interpretation and critical
evaluation.
GST 102: Use of English and Communication Skills II (2C)
Writing paragraphs: Topic sentence and coherence. Development of
paragraphs: illustration, Description, cause and effect including
definitions. Formal letters; essential parts and stylistic forms,
complaints and requests; jobs, ordering goods, letters to government
and other organisations. Writing reports; reporting event,
experiments. Writing summaries: techniques of summarising letters
and sounds in English, vowels and consonants. Interviews, seminar
presentation, public speech making, articles, concord and sentences
including tenses. Gerund, participles, active, passive and the
infinitive. Modal auxiliaries.
GST 105: History and Philosophy of Science (2 C)
Nature of science, scientific methods and theories, law of nature,
history of science, lost sciences of African, science, technology and
inventions, nature and scope of philosophy in science, man, nature
and his origin, man, environment and resources, Great Nigerian
Scientists.
GST 107: The Good Study Guide (2 C)
Getting Started: How to use the book, why read about study skills,
getting yourself organized, what is studying all about, reading and
note-taking: introduction, reactions to reading, your reading strategy,
memory, taking notes, conclusion. Other ways of studying:
Introduction, learning in groups, talks and lectures, learning from T.V

-- 308 of 377 --

309
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
and Radio broadcasts, other study media. Working with numbers:
Getting to know numbers, describing the world, describing the tables,
describing with diagrams and graphs, what is good writing? The
importance of writing, what does an essay look like, what is a good
essay, conclusion. How to write essays: Introduction, the craft of
writing, the advantages of treating essay writing as a craft, making
your essay flow, making a convincing case, the experience of writing.
Preparing for examination.
GST 201: Nigerian People and Culture
The Culture and Peoples of Southern and Northern Nigeria in Pre-
colonial Times, The Dynamics of the Evolution of Nigeria as a
Political Unit, The Culture of the Niger Delta; Rain Forest; Guinea
and the Sudan Savanna Regions of Nigeria, A Historical Analysis of
Education and National Development, Economy and National
Development, Religion and National Development in Nigeria. A
Historical Analysis of Moral and Socio-political Rights of Citizens,
Social Justice and National Development in Nigeria.
GST 202: Fundamentals of Peace Studies and Conflict
Resolution
Basic Understanding of Conflict; Definitions, Causes and Types of
Conflict, Conflict Theories, Phases in Conflict, Conflict Analysis &
Transformation. Dynamics of Conflict; Relationship between
Perception and Conflict, Language Barriers in Conflict and
Resolution, Early Warning and Early Response Mechanism, Arms
Control and Demilitarisation, Peace and Education. Trends in Global
Issues: International, Continental and Regional Organisations in the
Pursuance of World Peace, Peaceful Methods of Conflict Resolution,
Coercive Means of Conflict Resolution, Gender Issues and
Humanitarian Intervention.
GST 203: Introduction to Philosophy and Logic
Definition and Scope of Philosophy, Philosophy as the Parent
Discipline, Branches of Philosophy, Philosophy and Other
Disciplines, Sources of Knowledge and Criteria for Knowing.
Definition and Scope of Logic, Logic’s Vocabulary, Valid, Invalid,

-- 309 of 377 --

310
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Deductive and Inductive Arguments, Language and its Functions.
Fallacies, Definitions, Categorical Propositions, Syllogisms,
Symbolising in Logic, Truth Table Analysis, Logical Proofs of
Validity Using Truth Tables, Rules of Inference and Argument
Forms, Laws of Thought.
GST 301: Entrepreneurship Studies
Definition of Entrepreneurship, Relationship Between
Entrepreneurship and Small Business Management, Factors of
Entrepreneurship; Dealing with External Factors of Entrepreneurship;
Factors of Production; Profit and Other Objectives of an
Entrepreneur, the Business Environment, Understanding Viability
Study; Needs and Characteristics of Consumers; Mission and
Enterprise Objectives; Export Market Shares; Target Market; Income
Determination; Break-even Point, Size of the Business, Location
Factors; Financial Requirements Forms of Ownership; Business Plan.
Risk Analysis; Legal Requirements; Staffing, Purchasing; Production;
Management.
CIT 101: Computers in Society
What is Computer, Elements of a Computer: Hardware and Software,
How to Work with a Computer, Operating Systems, and Files. Word
Processing: Introduction to Word Processing, Word Processing
Program Facilities, Copying text, Saving Changes, and Formatting.
Spreadsheet: Entering and Correcting Data, Using Formula, Numeric
Formats, Creating Charts, Charts from Non-adjacent Data, Embedded
Charts, Charts Links and Chart Types. PowerPoint and Presentations:
Presentation Screen, Creating New Presentations, Naming
Presentations, Saving Presentations and Formatting Slides, Using
Auto-shapes. Networking, Internet and Electronic mail.
EDU 105: Introduction to Foundations of Education (2C)
Philosophical and psychological perspective, philosophy of
education, meaning and relevance, equality of educational
opportunity, psychology of education, introduction to learning
theories, readiness to learning, motivation and its relation to learning,
transfer of learning, historical and sociological perspective, concept
and nature of education, types of education, the growth of education

-- 310 of 377 --

311
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
in Nigeria, educational trends in Nigeria, innovations in education,
the status of teachers in Nigeria, education and society, social class
and educational opportunity, factors that influence education.
EDU 112: Professionalism in Teaching (2 C)
Concepts and issues in teaching, concepts of teaching and
professionalism, history of teaching in Nigeria, professional growth
of teachers, educating the educators, professional studies programs
for teachers, the teacher and the child, why teachers should care, the
making of ideal teacher, qualities of an ideal teacher, the role of the
teacher, the Nigerian Union of Teachers (NUT),the role of Parent
Teachers Association (PTA),the subject teachers association, the
status of teachers in Nigeria, strategies for making teaching a
profession
EDU 114: History of Education in Nigeria (2 C)
Nigeria traditional education, higher education in traditional society,
Islamic education in Nigeria, in Nigeria, the early missionaries and
the development of education in Nigeria, colonial government
involvement in Nigeria Education 1872 – 1882, Education
Ordinances 1887 – 1916, the impact of Phelps – Stokes Commission
on Education in Northern Nigeria, Secondary Education from 1859 –
1929, Higher Education, The National Curriculum Conference and
the National Policy on Education.
CHM 101: Introductory Inorganic Chemistry (2 Units)
Hypothesis, theory and law with appropriate illustrations, Nature of
matter – 3 states of matter, Atomic structure, electronic energy levels
and orbital. Periodic classification of elements and its relationship to
their electronic configurations, Chemical bonding, Survey of
properties and trends in groups I, II, IV, VI and transition metal
CHM 102: Introductory Organic Chemistry ( 2 Units)
Simple reactions of hydrocarbons, alcohols, and acids. Petroleum
chemistry, Oils and fats, hydrogenation of oils, polymer and
biologically important molecule.

-- 311 of 377 --

312
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
CHM 103: Introductory Physical Chemistry (2 Units)
Mole concepts and calculations based on it, methods of expressing
concentrations, Chemical Kinetics and equilibrium, and related
calculations, Important application of equilibrium – pH, solubility
products and solubility of ionic solids, Thermo chemistry and simple
calculations based on Hess’s law, Electrochemistry and working of
various cells, Brief mentions of corrosion; chemical thermodynamics;
G = H - TS.
BIO 191: General Biology Practical I (2 Units)
What practical work in biology involves. Laboratory organisation.
Handling common laboratory equipment. Microscopic handling and
maintenance. Making microscopic measurements. Procuring animal
materials for practicals. Killing, preserving and maintaining animal
materials. Procuring plant materials. External features of plants
(differences and similarities).Preparation of temporary slides.
Preparation of stains and reagents. Techniques for microbial culture
and grain staining. Setting up demonstration for physiological
processes in plants. Setting up apparatus for demonstrating
physiological processes in animals. Preparation required for
dissection.
BIO 192: General Biology Laboratory II (2 Units)
Observation and description of the morphological and diagnostic
features as well as the differences among the different phyla of the
plant, animal, archebacteria, eubacteria, fungi and protista kingdoms.
Identification of the taxonomic hierarchy of the members of the above
groups. Study of the structure and functions of their parts and habitats
specifications.
BIO 101: General Biology I (2 C)
Cell structure and organisation; function of cellular organelles,
diversity, characteristics and classification of living things, general
reproduction, interrelationship of organism; heredity and evolution;
elements of ecology and types of habitats.

-- 312 of 377 --

313
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
BIO 102: General Biology II (2 C)
A generalised survey of the plant and animal kingdom based mainly
on study or similarities and differences in the external features,
ecological adaptation of these forms.
EDU 231: Curriculum Theory and Practice (2 C)
History of Curriculum Development in Nigeria: The importance of
curriculum, Curriculum Development and/or Improvement in a
developing country like Nigeria, Participants in Curriculum
Planning:- Levels of Planning, Approaches to Planning, Curriculum
Decisions:- Different Stages of Curriculum Decision, The 1969
National Curriculum Conference as a Case Study, Force affecting
Curriculum Decisions, Aims and Objectives of Nigeria Education,
Selection of Learning Experience:- Criteria for Selection, Programme
of Studies, Programme of Activities, Programme of Guidance,
Organisation of Learning Experience:- Traditional Organisation of
Curriculum, New Dimension in Organisation. Evaluation:- Evaluation
of Educational Programmes, Formative Evaluation (Action
Research), Summative Evaluation, Evaluation of the Achievement of
the Individual in the Programme:- Guidance – oriented Evaluation,
Selection – oriented Evaluation
EDU 212: Sociology of Education (2 C)
Definition of Sociology, Education and Pedagogy from Sociological
Perspective, Education and Society, Theory of Knowledge, Principles
of the Sociology of Knowledge, Socialization:- Culture and
Personality, Education and Social Frame Work:- The Family and
Education, Education and Social Stratification – the Nigeria Elites,
Education and Social Values, Moral Education in Changing Society;
Education, Social Justice and the Teacher, Equality in Education,
Freedom in Education. The Social Functions of Education –
Education and Social Change, Education and Social Economic
Development, The Political function of Education, The Sociology of
Teaching:- The Teacher and his Role; The Reluctant Learner, The
Teacher in the Classroom, Social Relations in the School.

-- 313 of 377 --

314
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
EDU 233: General Teaching Methods (2 C)
The Teacher and the Child, How children learn, Professional attitudes
and understanding of learners, The aims of the Teaching, The Stages
In Lesson Preparation:- The Syllabus, The Scheme of work, Lesson
Notes; Steps in preparation of notes, The problem of time –table.
General Teaching Methods:- Induction Method, Deduction Method,
Induction and Deduction Methods, The Lecture Method, Dramatic
Method, Questioning and Problem Methods, The Project Methods,
Activities in the Lesson, The Art of Classroom Management:-
Qualities of a good teacher, Some common bad habits to avoid,
Dealing with the problem of discipline in class. Questions and
Questioning, Students Natural Curiosity and Enquiry, Aims in
Questing, Questions in Classroom: The teacher’s questions, the
pupil’s questions, Guidelines for questioning. Testing and
Examinations, the purpose of testing, what to test, How and when to
test, Characteristics of a good test, types of tests, marks and
Assignments, Purpose of marking and assignments, Giving and
marking assignments, Awarding and assigning marks and grades,
methods of Study, Use of test book, Art of Note-Making,
Organisation of work, Revision and review of work, Physical
environment of the classroom, Preparation for examination. Use of
Audio-Visual Aids, Importance of Audio-visual in teaching, Types of
Audio-visual Aids and their uses.
EDU 204: Philosophy of Education (2 C)
Explaining concepts of education, (Aims: - goals, objectives, end,
means); Philosophy and philosophers; Curriculum: The nature of
education in Nigeria (metaphysics) – formal and informal education,
auxiliary education, Liberal and vocational education. Knowledge and
education in Nigeria – (Epistemology) Definitions of knowledge,
Types of knowledge; Knowledge by divine revelation, By institution
Prior knowledge, Posteriori knowledge, Need for knowledge in
modern Nigeria morality and education (axiology) Define concepts of
morality and education, Determinants of good education, Logic and
education, Inductive and Deductive methods of teaching; Logic and
curriculum planning, Logic and School Administration; Discipline;
Freedom, Determination and Free will.

-- 314 of 377 --

315
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
BIO 211: Coelomate Invertebrates (2C)
Organisation and Biology of higher metazoan groups. Anatomy and
sexual dimorphism of the metazoans. Economic importance.
BIO 212: Helminthology (2 Units)
General classification and characteristics of nematodes, cestodes and
nematodes, studies of their morphology and life cycles, epidemiology,
pathogenesis and progenetic forms, diagnosis, control methods and
economic importance. Practical components should give emphasis on
parasite morphology and diagnostic techniques used to identify
parasite species.
CHM 202: Analytical Chemistry I (2 Units)
Theory of errors, statistical treatment of data; Theory of sampling,
chemistry methods of analysis including volumetric (acid base,,
oxidation – reduction, precipitation and compleximetry);
Physicochemical methods (Optical methods of analysis – UV/V),
separation methods. pH notation and buffer solutions. Gravimetry
solubility product and its application to separation methods of metals.
CHM 203: Organic Chemistry II (2 Units)
Factors affecting structure and physical properties of organic
compounds; Factors affecting availability of electrons, Stereo-
chemistry; Energy of activation and free radical substitution reactions
in alkenes. Functional group chemistry. Electrophillic and
nucleophillic substitution reactions. Aromaticity. Various type of
organic reactions; e.g. addition, free radical, elimination and
substitution reactions.
CHM 204: Structure and Bonding (2 Units)
Idea of quantum states. Orbital shape and energy, simple valence
theory. Electron repulsion theory; atomic spectra. The structure and
chemistry of some representative main group element compounds.
CHM 205: Inorganic Chemistry II (2 Units)
Chemistry of first row transition metals. Introduction to co-ordination
Chemistry including elementary treatment of crystal field theory.
Comparative Chemistry of the following elements: Ga, In, TI, (b) Ge,

-- 315 of 377 --

316
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Sn, Pb, (c) As, Sb, Bi (d) Se, Te, Po. Elementary introduction to
Organometalic Chemistry. Role of metals in biochemical Systems.
BIO 213: Chemistry of Amino Acids and Proteins (2 C)
Structure, properties and classification of Amino acids,Ph,pka and
buffer, peptide. Reactions of specific amino acids, separation of
peptides, chemistry of proteins including their structural level and
types of bonds stabilising them, properties, functions and
classifications of protein, enzymes, vitamins
BIO 216: Chemistry of Cho, Lipids and Nucliec Acids
Classification of physical properties of carbohydrates, structure of
glucose, projection and perspective formula, structure of properties of
other monossacharides, brief treatment of dissacharides and
polyssacharides. Chemistry, classification and properties of lipids.
Methods of analysis of lipids, lipoprotein, membrane and membrane
structure. Chemistry of nucleic acids (bases, sugar and phosphate
acids) Structure and roles of DNA and RNA.
EDU 250: Biology Methods (2 C)
Developing a point of view in Biology Teaching, Structural and
Epistemological Foundation of Biology and implication for Teaching
Strategies for Teaching Biology. Resources for Biology Teaching and
Lab. Management; Evaluation of Biology, Teaching and Learning;
School Biology – curricular; Biology organization project
BIO 201: Genetics I (2 C)
Hereditable and non-hereditable characteristics. Probability and tests
of goodness of fit. Quantitative inheritance, variation in genome
structure, introduction to population – genetics. Physical and
chemical nature of genetic materials. Protein synthesis.
BIO 112: Introduction to Ecology (2 C)
Concepts and definition of ecosystem. Ecology at community level.
Ecological classification of habitant types, terrestrial and aquatic
biomass, specific features of each, biotic components of habitant,
natural destruction, factors of communities, success of community
interaction, natural cycle, dynamics of population. Practical to include

-- 316 of 377 --

317
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
among others community and population studies of each species in a
habitat.
BIO 203: General Physiology 1 (2 C)
Physical and chemical processes in animal and plant physiology.
Basic elements of respiratory, photosynthesis, transportation or
circulation, reproduction, germination, growth hormones and
enzymology.
BIO 204: Biological Techniques (2 C)
Microscope, preparation of microscope slides, photometry,
colorimetry, chromatography, candoctomery, experimental design.
BIO 205: Introductory Development Cell Biology (2 C)
History and present trends in cell biology; reproduction, cell division,
cell differentiation and growth of cells. A brief study of the molecular
basis of cell structure and development. Organelles, proteins and
nucleus acids.
BIO 207: Lower Invertebrates (2 Units)
Systematic approach to invertebrates morphology and levels of
organisation. Classification of Protozoa, Rhizopoda, Apicomplexa,
Sarcomastigophora, Ciliophora, Parazoa; Porifera.Metazoan;
Cnidaria, Platyhelminthes, Nematode, Annelida, Mollusca,
Arthropoda, Echinodermata with emphasis on the differences and
similarities among the groups; adaptive features to mode of life and
their economic importance.
BIO 208: Seedless Plants (2 Units)
Account of systematics, morphology and reproduction, life histories
and ecology of Algae, Fungi, Bryophytes and Pteridopytes, including
fossils.
BIO 209: Chordates (3 Units)
Evolution, classification and general characteristics of vertebrate
phyla. Evolution and adaptive radiation. Zoogeography.

-- 317 of 377 --

318
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
BIO 210: Seed Plants (2 Units)
Detailed account of the origin and evolution of seed plants
(angiosperms), the mode of reproduction, vascular elements,
morphology and anatomy
BIO 217: General Microbiology (3 Units)
Historical aspects, scope of microbiology, general characteristics of
microorganisms, growth and reproduction of microorganisms;
sterilisation and disinfection; brief survey of microbes as friends and
foes. Systematic classification of bacteria fungi, viruses, etc.
Microbial variation and heredity; biological and biochemical
reactions of microorganisms; cycles of elements in nature; Nitrogen
fixation
BIO 313: Animal Ecology (2 Units)
The ecology of local terrestrial and aquatic animals; growth rate and
age structure of animal populations; natality and mortality,
survivorship curves. Life tables and K-factor analysis. Competition.
he natural regulation of animal numbers. Population cycles. The
dynamics of predator-prey systems. The ecology of African
mammals. Behavioural ecology.
EDU 321: Psychology of Learning (2 C)
Definitions of psychology and learning; Theories of learning and the
theorists levels of motivation and implication for education; Memory
and forgetting, Types of memory, Method of improving memory,
Types of forgetting, Factors influencing forgetting, Implication for
education; Cognitive theory of learning; Reinforcement and
punishment and classroom application; Behaviourism, Contributions
of behavioral psychologists and classroom application; Transfer of
learning and classroom application, S – R theory of Thorndike –
skinner, Meaning of S – R, The Laws of readiness, Exercise and
effect; Punishment; Classroom application
EDU 332: Educational Technology (2 C)
Definition of Instructional Technology, its Philosophy, Terminology,
Roles of Instructional Technology in the Learning Process; The
experience, Theory of Learning, learning and Communication in the

-- 318 of 377 --

319
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
classroom, Learning has changed behaviour, The teacher’s
responsibilities, Selecting and using materials and media in
Instructional, Visual aids, Non-projected aids, Projectors, Projected
aids, Audio-visual aids, Creating Instructional Materials, Duplicators,
Equipment Operation, projection, Recording.
EDU 323: Basic Research Methods in Education (2 C)
Meaning of Research; Scientific method of research, Selection of the
topic, Subjects etc for research; Purposes of research studies;
Guidelines in selection of topics, Preparing a research proposal,
Statement of the problem; Determination of data required;
Hypothetical conclusions and implication, Collecting information and
data; Observation and interview methods, Basic consideration in data
collection; The correspondence method; Analysis and interpretation
of Data; Basic statistical concept and Their Computation, Designs of
Experiments:- Basic types of errors; Simple Randomised Design,
Random – Replications Design; Groups- within – Treatment design;
Treatment of extra venous variables, Scaling Problems and
Techniques:- Rating Scales, Rank-order Scales, etc, Determination of
Scale Value.
EDU 314: Comparative Education (2 C)
Scope and meaning of education, examination of significant
differences and similarities in education policy and practices in
selected societies, problems of educational development in
developing countries.
EDU 335: Teaching Practice I (3 C)
Students learn through practical experience how to teach particular
subjects, manage a classroom and the functions of a good teacher.
SED 305: – Practicum in Science Teaching (3C )
Students are expected to carry out activities in their respective areas
of specialisation as stated below.
Agric Practicum
Activities in Farm tools & Machinery, Methods in Farm Surveying,
Management of Farm Animals, Construction of Egg candler &

-- 319 of 377 --

320
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
candling, Soil and Soil experiments, Rocks & Rock Formation,
Floriculture.
Biology Practicum
Activities on Microscopy cell division, Construction of quaerat,
Ecosystem, Improvisation of necessary instrument in Biology e.g.
Rain gauge, ACC paper wind vane etc. Activities on genetical
principles, Construction of Herbarium, Staffing of Animals,
Skeleton.
Physics Practicum
Activities on Graphs & Data handling, Activity on measurement of
Mass, Experiment on Mechanics, Experiments on light.
Chemistry Practicum
Activities on separation Techniques, Preparation of standard
solutions, Activities on volumetric Analysis, Qualitative analysis,
Test for gases activities on Identification of rations.
Integrated Science Practicum
Activities on Microscopy, Improvisation of an ecosystem, Activities
on Energy transformation, Simple machines, Thermo dynamics, Test
for gases, Separation techniques, Activities on Volumetric Analysis.
Mathematics Practicum
Improvisation of Abacus Counters
Using improvised materials to teach shapes such as triangle, circle
square etc.
Using simple games to teach elementary mathematics.
Information and Technology Practicum
Activities on computer games, Improvising computer, Activities on
computer virus.
Note: The activities for each of the sciences listed above will include
post teaching practice discussion and remediation (EDU336).

-- 320 of 377 --

321
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
EDU 336: Post Teaching Practice Evaluation/Remediation
(2C)
The student is required to write a comprehensive report on his/her
experiences in practical implementation of teaching/learning
strategies in the classroom as applied to the subject area. The report
should include:
• Challenges encountered during the teaching practice;
• The lesson notes used during the teaching practice;
• Assessment questions as well as the marking guides used;
• Assessment of teaching practice supervision by the supervisor,
and
• Suggestions for improvement.
The report should be submitted by the student to the Dean through the
Study Centre Director for:
• Evaluation,
• Feedback, and
• Remediation.
The result of the overall process should be communicated to the
student from the Dean through the Study Centre Director.
BIO 301: Genetics II (3 C)
Aspects of human genetics pedigree analysis. Further consideration
of various deviations for basic principles. Gene interaction. Pre-
requisite – Bio 201Mendelian, molecular and statistical basis of
population, Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium and its genetic uses,
ecological genetics and mode of selection causes of changes in gene
and gene and genotype frequencies.
BIO 302: Field Course I (Practicum) (1 C)
Sampling techniques in local habitats. Assessment by report.

-- 321 of 377 --

322
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
BIO 303: General Cytology (3 C)
Light, phase contrast, dark-field and electron microscopy auto-
radiography, florescent, cell cycle, introductory cytogenetic.
BIO 304: General Ecology (3 C)
The ecosystem approach to the study of ecology. Energy flaw and
nutrients cycling dynamics of populations and communities in
ecosystem, influence of man. Pre-requisite BIO 202
BIO 305: Molecular Biology (3 C)
Biogenesis of micro tubules, microfilaments, and mitochondria.
Membrane interaction. Introduction to bio-energetic and thermo-
dynamics. Pre-requisite – BIO 205.
BIO 306: General Physiology II (3 C)
A general study of osmoregulation, excretion transport, homoeostasis
and their co-ordination in animals. Plant water relation, growth and
growth regulation. Physiological aspect of crop yield. Perquisite –
BIO 203.
BIO 308: Biogeography
Distribution of world flora, floristic regions of the world and
zoogeographic regions of the world, comparism of tropical and
temperate flora, dispersal and colonisation of land by plants and
animals, island biogeography, relationships between vegetation, soil
types and climate, relationships between plants distribution and word
faunas
BIO 309: Introductory Nematology (2 C)
Principal characteristics of nematodes, mapology, position and
outlines of classification of nematodes. Morphology and Biology of
important plant parasitic nematodes and their economic importance
nematological techniques. General principles and method of
controlling nematodes.
BIO 308 Evolution (2 C)
Current concepts in evolution; Geological periods and epochs.
Genetics variation and speciation. Evolution of selected organisms.

-- 322 of 377 --

323
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
BIO 311: Mycology (2 Units)
Classification, structure, life cycles and physiology of fungi, their
economic importance
BIO 314: Animal Behaviour (2 Units)
History of ethology. Reflex and complex behaviour. Orientation and
taxes. Fixed action patterns, releasers, motivation and driver.
Displays, displacement activities and conflict behaviour. Learning
communication and social behaviour. The social behaviour of
primates. Hierarchical organisation. The physiology of behaviour.
Habitat selection, homing and navigation. Courtship and parenthood.
Biological clocks.
BIO 318: Immunology and Immunochemistry (3 Units)
Basic concepts of immunology, structure of antigenic determinants
cellular response, genetics of response to antigenic stimulation.
Structure and classification of immunoglobulin and antibodies.
Mechanisms of antibody formation. Antigen-antibody interactions;
role of lymphoid tissues and thymus in immuno-responses.
Hypersensitivity, immunopathology, auto-pathology, auto
immunology, tumor and transplantation immunology,
immunoprophylaxis modern techniques in immunology and
immunochemistry. Principles of Chemotherapy. History of
chemotherapy. Basic pharmaco dynamics and pharmacokinetics.
Chemotherapeutic agents: antibacterial, antifungal, antiviral
antiprotozoan and anti helminths. Modes of action of antimicrobials.
Chemotherapy of specific diseases. Drug bio-assays and sensitivity
tests.
BIO 411: Parasitology (2 Units)
Principles of Parasitological and Zoo-economic effects. Introduction
to parasitism history and evolution of parasitism, types of parasitism,
host-parasite relationships. Parasitic protozoa, trematodes, cestodes,
nematodes, acanthocephalans, leeches and arthropods.

-- 323 of 377 --

324
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
BIO 412: Wildlife Ecology and Conservation (3 Units)
General principles of ecosystem management, wildlife disease,
principles of wildlife management.Wildlife in Nigeria; conservation
policies, problems and prospects.World wildlife resources and their
protection.
BIO 413 Developmental Biology (2 Units)
Gametogenesis, fertilisation, morulla formation, invagination,
organogenesis, and general embryology.
EDU 421: Guidance and Counselling (2 C)
Meaning, Purpose and Development of Guidance and Counselling,
The services of a School Guidance programme; - The individual
appraisal service. Information needed for the analysis of the
individual, collection of information (test, inventories etc).
Organising recording and filing information; Use of recorded
information; Information service:- Vocational Education and Personal
Social Information, Methods of obtaining and Disseminating
information; The Counselling Service:- Nature, Purpose and Theories
of Counselling; The Counsellor and the counselling process, The
Placement Service in School and out-of School placement, follow up
studies; Purposes of and procedures in follow-up studies, Problems in
Guidance and counselling:- Values and attitude orientation, Guidance
as Classroom or Specialist Centered, Guidance as Direction or
Developments, Problems of Social change, Relation with other
Personnel and Services:-Counsellor and School Administration,
Relationship with teachers, Extra – School Relationship, Working
with Parents and Making Referential, Guidance:- Organisation and
Implementation, Preparation of Occupational, Information,
Practicum; Preparing and using Cumulative records.
EDU 412: Educational Management (2 C)
Define educational administration, Educational law and the control of
Education in Nigeria, The organisation of the Ministry of Education
and the function of boards of education, the Nigerian Educational
system, the school and the community, Bureaucracy and decision
making in educational administration, human relations in Educational
administration, Educational Leadership, the role of the principal, staff

-- 324 of 377 --

325
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
personnel administration, supervision of instruction, Admission
Procedures, Student’s records and reports, Student’s discipline and
welfare, Student organisation and participation in School
Administration, Principle of planning, School finance and accounting
system, School routine and time table, The school plant and facilities,
Examinations and the problems of academic standards, Evaluation
and school inspection.
EDU 423: Measurement and Evaluation (2 C)
Definition and purpose of Measurement and Evaluation, Importance
of Tests in Education; Validity of Tests in Educational Achievement;
Functions of classroom tests, Criteria for effective testing, Problems
of tests construction; Measurement of educational outcomes,
Behavioral cognitive and non-cognitive of education, Pupils
characteristics to be measured, Types of tests, Essay and objective
type tests advantages and disadvantages of each, when to use each of
them. Tests Administration and Scoring, Judging the Quality of a
Classroom test, Estimating, Interpreting and improving reliability of
test, Validity of Classroom Tests, Problem of Marking Tests, and
Quality Control in Marking System.
EDU 420: Research Project (4 C)
An application of the research methods and data processing course to
a field experience under the guidance of a selected facilitator.
EDU 426: Special Education (2 C)
Concept of special education, its definition and origins. Examination
of the terms integration, inclusion, and individualised education
programme within the context of special education. Giftedness, its
meaning, and causes as well as case studies of the gifted. The
education of gifted children. Hearing impairment and educational
considerations for the deaf. Visual impairment, its causes and history.
Educational considerations for visually impaired children.
EDU 435: Teaching Practice II (3 C)
A minimum of six weeks supervised exposure to classroom teaching
on field experience to demonstrate the degree of proficiency in
applying some of the basic theories of instruction.

-- 325 of 377 --

326
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
BIO 401: Population Genetics (3 C)
An introductory consideration of mathematics models for the analysis
of gene frequencies and genetic variation in populations.
BIO 402: Cytogenetics of Plants (3 C)
Aspect of cell and nuclear division morphology and behaviour of
chromosomes observation and polypidy.
BIO 403: Soil Ecology (3 C)
Physical and chemical nature of soil. Setritus organism. Cycling of
minerals and nutrient pools. Classification and characteristics of
soils. Chemical component and analysis of soils and plant tissue.
Plant, soil-water relationships.
BIO 404: Systematic Biology (3 C)
A bio-systematic approach to the classification of organisms and
nomenclature.
BIO 405: Developmental Biology (3 C)
Molecular and genetic aspects of development. A detailed study of
the cellular and multi-cellular bases of development.
BIO 407: Hydrobiology (3 C)
Types of aquatic habitat, ecological adaptations to aquatic life.
4. 11. Grade Point Average (GPA) and Cumulative Grade Point
Average (CGPA)
4. 11.1 Formula for Calculation of GPA and CGPA
Performance of students in any semester is reported in Grade Point
Average (GPA). This is the average of weighted grade points earned
in the courses taken during the semester. The GPA is obtained by
multiplying the grade in each course by the number of credit units
assigned to that course, and then summing these up and dividing the
sum by the total number of credit units taken for the semester.
The CGPA on the other hand is obtained by multiplying the total
grade points obtained by the respective credit units for all the

-- 326 of 377 --

327
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
semesters added together and then dividing the product by the total
number of credit units for all the courses registered by a student.
4.12. Class of Degree
Degrees for undergraduate programmes are classified into four levels
as follows:
1. 1st Class Honours Degree with cumulative grade point average of
4.5 to 5 points.
2. 2nd Class Honours Upper Degree with cumulative grade point
average of 3.50 to 4.49.
3. 2nd Class Degree (Lower Division) with cumulative grade point
average of 2.40 to 3.49.
4. 3rd Class Degree with cumulative grade point average of 1.50 to
2.39.
The details of this information are provided in Table 16 below.
Table 16 :Formula for Calculation of GPA and CGPA
(i)
Cours
e
Units
(
ii)
Percent
age
Scores
(
iii)
Letter
Grade
(
iv)
Grade
Points
(GP)
(v)
Grade
Point
Averag
e (GPA)
(vi)
Cumula
tive
Grade
Point
Average
(CGPA)
(vii)
Clas
s of
Degr
ee
Vary
accordi
ng to
hours
assigne
d to
each
course
per
week
per
semest
70 – 100
60 – 69
50 – 59
45 – 49
40 – 44
0 - 39
A
B
C
D
E
F
5
4
3
2
1
0
Divided
by
multiply
ing I
and iv
and
divided
by total
credit
units
4.50 –
5.00
3.50 –
4.49
2.40 –
3.49
1.50 –
2.39
1st
Class
2nd
Class
Uppe
r
2nd
Class
Low
er
3rd

-- 327 of 377 --

328
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
er, and
accordi
ng to
work
load
carried
by
student
s
Class
4.13 Good Academic Standing
A student whose Cumulative Grade point Average (CGPA) at any
semester is between 3.5 and 5.0 is a good student that should
endeavour to keep it up in order to aspire to graduate with first class
or second class upper degree of his/her programme.
A student whose CGPA is between 1.50 and 2.5 at the point of a
particular year of study is a weak student who should buckle up to
earn a good degree. At the end of a student’s programme where he or
she has exhausted all the courses without earning up to 1.5, such a
student is assumed to have failed. This is not good enough
considering the energy and resources put in place.
4.14 End of Programme Clearance
Upon the release of the graduation list, graduating students are
required to undergo a clearance process by doing the following:
1. Log into your portal, click on clearance form which is on the
left hand side of the menu,
2. Print it out and fill in the necessary information required on
the form, e.g Name, Matric Number, etc. (student data).
Having done the above, you can return to the portal:
1. Click on Study Centre to clear any issues regarding the centre.
If there are none, get an official stamp for proof.
2. Click on Library for clearance on books if still having school
books in your possession. If there are none, an official stamp
is required here for proof.

-- 328 of 377 --

329
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
3. Click on Bursary; here is the final process for clearance on
Alumni, project fees, IT, etc. This part will also be stamped by
the school representative.
4. Having satisfied all the above, the student is ready for the
graduation ceremony.

-- 329 of 377 --

330
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
PART 5: ASSESSMENT AND EVALUATION
5.0 Introduction
To achieve the learning objectives of any course, it is mandatory that
students are assessed during and at the end of the semester. This
brings about the issue of examination and assessment. The assessment
of students’ progress is done through a combination of the following
methods:
1. Tutor-marked Assignments (TMAs)
2. Written essay examinations or pen on paper (POP)
3. Computer-based or e-examinations
4. Individual projects
5. Seminar presentations
6. Field experience or practicum
7. Laboratory activities where applicable
5.1 Tutor- Marked Assignments (TMAs)
The TMA is part of the evaluation mechanism where each course is
provided with four (4) sets of twenty (20) questions each and the best
three (3) are used as part of Continuous Assessment. The TMAs are
objective questions. To qualify to sit for each examination and to be
graded, each student is expected to write and turn in three (3) TMAs
for each of the courses registered.
5.1.1 Opening and Closing of the TMA Portal
This is usually determined at each semester by the Directorate of
Information and Communication Technology (DICT) based on the
University’s academic calendar.

-- 330 of 377 --

331
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
5.2 End of Semester Examinations
5.2.1 The e-Examination
 Undergraduate 100 and 200 levels undergraduates write
electronic examinations in the faculty.
 Lecturers are assigned to courses and generate test items
course by course.
 The type of test items set by lecturers are a combination of
multiple choice examinations, completion and true/false.
 One hundred and twenty (120) questions for a two unit course
and one hundred and fifty (150) for a three unit course per
course are to be generated by lecturers.
 After the generation of the items, lecturers upload and
activate to MIS or ICT required electronic platform.
 E-Examinations are conducted at designated venues study
centre by study centre.
 ICT or MIS directorates make the questions available to
students according to the time table released for e-
examination.
 Students take the examination and scores are returned to them
through their portals.
5.2.2 Pen-on-Paper (POP) Examination
 Undergraduate 300, 400 levels and post graduate students
write pen-on-paper (essay) examinations in the faculty.
 Lecturers are assigned to courses and generate test items
course by course.
 The types of test items set by lecturers are essay in nature.
 For a two unit course, five (5) essay questions are generated
out which students are made to answer four (4) while for a
three unit course, six questions are generated out which four
(4) would be answered.
 POP examinations are conducted at designated venues study
centre by study centre.
 Students are made to write the examinations according to POP
examination time table scheduled by Directorate of
Examinations and Assessment (DEA).

-- 331 of 377 --

332
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
 The students’ examination scripts are marked at six marking
centres at each geopolitical zone through conference marking.
 Qualified examiners (with Ph. D ) are recruited at each centre
for marking at the centre.
 Subject Officers for the faculty at each marking centre
undertake the vetting of marked scripts to ascertain the quality
of scoring.
 Examination scores are uploaded to MIS platform for further
processing and transfer to students’ portals after ratification by
the faculty, UEC and University Senate.
5.2.3 Opening and Closing of the Examination Portal
Opening and closing of the examination portal shall be done
according to the academic calendar released by the University
Management.
5.3 Examination Procedures
Examination constitutes a very important aspect of the University
activities and the University states categorically that the conduct of its
examination is taken seriously. The University does not condone any
form of examination misconduct.
5.3.1 Policies
As given by the University Management through the Directorate of
Examinations and Assessments (DEA).

-- 332 of 377 --

333
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
PART 6: SUPPORT SERVICES
6.0 Introduction
As a student of NOUN, one of the departments you might be meeting
for the first time is the Learner Support Services. Learner support is
not well known or used at all in conventional universities. Where it is
used at all, it is limited to handling personal difficulties too great for a
student to handle on his or her own. It thus focuses on the exceptional
needs of a minority of students. In Open and Distance Learning
however, Learner support focuses on meeting the needs of all
learners; the needs could be as diverse as the student body itself.
Meeting such needs is central to high quality learning just as it is
essential for effective provision of ODL. Some of such needs include
but not limited to helping you know what is on offer, i.e. guidance
about choice of courses, easing registration procedures, preparatory
diagnosis, study skills, adjustment needs, access to group learning in
seminars, tutorials, how to complete your chosen courses for the
semester, how to work on your assignment, how to contact other
students and organise group study with them, helping you sharpen
your participation in a course, etc.
Learner Support Services identifies you as an individual student thus
you are not lost in the market. Learner Support interacts with you
constantly, thus your “whereabouts” in the academic community is
easily known and Learner Support spends quality time with you thus
helping you appreciate yourself, your worth and helping to make you
re-discover yourself. For you therefore, Learner Support plays a
support role and provides supportive people; it gives you support
structures and a supportive environment, it serves as an intermediary
between you and the institution since we in Learner Support
understand your “ language” as well as the “language” of the
institution; and through Learner Support, you can make use of
institutional provisions. Staffs of the Learner Support Services,
particularly the Student Counsellors, respond to your needs
appropriately, relate to you as individuals with unique interests,
interact with you to know how you feel, fare and function, help to
chart quality route for you as you progress in your studies thus acting
as your quality agents, serving as your academic maintenance

-- 333 of 377 --

334
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
engineers and your systems builders . More than anything else,
Learner Support helps you to build bridges, linking you with people,
events, situations, ideas and activities that will enhance learning.
6.1 Study Centres
As explained above, an extensive and comprehensive learner support
system has been established at NOUN and administered through the
Directorate of Learner Support Services. The main venues where
student support services take place are the Study Centres which are
distributed all over the country.
The Human Resource of Learner Support Services include study
centre directors, administrative officers, multimedia personnel,
account staffs and store officers.
The highly qualified and experienced guidance counsellors are
available for you to contact them from time to time with respect to
several aspects of your studies including enrolment, choice of
programmes and courses, when and how to study and when to seek
special clinic for academic guidance. Their support service should
also provide early warning signals in relation to difficulty with studies
in order for you to take prompt remedial action if there is need for
such.
The facilitators deal exclusively with academic issues. The course
materials which have been developed in sequence using conceptual or
modular themes are the main teaching instruments. The themes have
been broken down to sections and the sections broken down into
units. The main function of the facilitators is therefore to solely bring
to your understanding some grey areas in these course materials.
The multimedia approach is the preferred method of delivery. This
approach, apart from the print materials which you will read on your
own, may consist of audio visual programmes, CD-ROMs, video
tapes, audio tapes, assignments, counselling sessions and where
necessary, practical work. For now however, the main course material
is the print version. Once you have registered the prescribed courses

-- 334 of 377 --

335
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
of your choice, you will be provided with these print materials and
you proceed straight to study them.
Printed materials, audiotapes, video tapes and CD-ROMs will be
offered as complimentary media based on availability and your
preference. You will also be able to learn from a distance through
television and radio broadcasts of our educational programmes, when
they are aired.
6.2 Facilitation
Due to a variety of reasons, which include lack of qualified personnel,
few subscriptions in some courses, a scheme for sharing and of using
few facilitators for programmes may be practiced within a quality
assurance framework. All students are encouraged to attend face-to-
face contact sessions. The duration of the contact session will be
determined by the nature of the courses. In some courses such as
those requiring laboratory classes, participation at the contact session
shall be mandatory. This would enable the lecturers to conduct
intensive reviews, simulation, critiques, students’ questioning and
some lectures on course contents they had worked on for the year.
6.2.1 Introduction to iLearn platform
NOUN iLEARN is a new and exciting e-learning solution created to
transform and empower National Open University of Nigeria to truly
deliver impactful education to all types of students, lead the
transformation of education and become the face of technology-
based education in Africa. This platform has been created to provide
an avenue for teachers and knowledge bearers who are passionate
about education to disseminate and share that knowledge across a
wide spectrum of learners in ways that are convenient and seamless.
NOUN iLEARN was born from a passion for education, growth,
change and technology. This platform has changed the way students
learn, the way facilitators share the knowledge that they have and the
entire viewpoint of the National Open University of Nigeria. With
this platform, facilitators have been empowered to truly share their
vision, thoughts, experience and knowledge with an unlimited
number of learners across various geographies.

-- 335 of 377 --

336
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
One of the core principles of NOUN iLEARN is to support students
to gain in-depth understanding of the subject matter being studied per
time. Interaction plays a key role in learning; understanding of course
learning content is deepened by the cross interaction between students
and facilitators. The NOUN iLEARN platform replicates the
traditional classroom interaction experience using technology. It
provides for faculty-led discussions, managed questioning and
course-centred discussions which are open and could be initiated by
students.
6.2.2 Tutorial Support
We give tutorial support through online facilitation, group
discussions, chat rooms, and forums.
6.3 Library Services
The NOUN Library is a place where you will find each course
material, set of books, audio-visual materials, and journals etc. The
NOUN Library will be opened to students and can be accessed from
any location with an internet connection. Libraries at study centres
will also be found helpful to students. Any book or material borrowed
from the library should be returned at the designated time for easy
flow of materials. However, the NOUN authority will punish any
student who attempts to remove or removes library materials.
Students shall be responsible for any damage to library books or
materials being used by them
6.4 Information Communication Technology
The Information and Communication Technology (ICT) Department
of the University is a unit that demonstrates the dependence of the
University on IT. It is the arrow head of the electronic and
networking activities of the University. It is positioned primarily to
make the University achieve in its mode of learning, Distance and
Learning. Its main duty is to see to the internet connectivity and
networking technology that enhances the functionality of the
University in terms of admission and examination processes and
various payments done by the learners. When issues arise in these
areas, the ICT staffs are readily on ground to resolve such.

-- 336 of 377 --

337
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
6.4.1 Channels of Communication
 Correspondence with facilitators via letters or e-mail, SMS
 Telephone discussions with facilitators
 Newsletters and the news bulletin
 NOUN website

-- 337 of 377 --

338
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
PART 7: STUDENTS’ ISSUES
7.0 Introduction
One of the features that characterise an open university is the
openness with which it conducts its academic activities and provides
information relating to these activities. Due to some peculiarities of
students’ profile in an open university in terms of age and socio-
economic factors, the nature of the students and the profile interaction
with the Open University assumes a different meaning unknown to
the conventional university system. The students’ profile ensures that
students’ needs are not only varied, they are multidimensional whilst
being specific to the particular student.
Communication between teachers and learners is seen as a necessary
component in distance education as in all other forms of education.
Open learning systems on the other hand are often heavily based on
self-study. The importance attached to student-teacher interaction
may vary considerably between different systems, and has been
closely linked to educational strategies such as the open learning
system in NOUN. Interaction among learners is another crucial
component. Learner-learner interaction is encouraged at NOUN.
Often, students meet physically in groups sometimes connected with
other forms of local support. Some technologies allow the
organisation of ‘‘virtual groups’’, where the students may interact at a
distance, as for example by computer-mediated communication.
Learner Support Services delivered locally is a common component
of ODL and NOUN. NOUN provides this service at specially
designated locations called learning/study centres. This support is in a
form that allows some kind of direct interaction between the learner
and a teacher or a mentor/facilitator. This component may be
organised completely as face-to-face events, or in combination with
communication at a distance such as teleconferences. The centre may
also offer access to other learning resources and equipment.

-- 338 of 377 --

339
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
7.1 Code of Conduct
7.2 Students’ Complaints
The Visitors Information and Call Centre (VICC) is a specialised unit
of the University that provides ready answers to all types of enquiries
presented by visitors and prospective students. It serves as a link
between the University and the general public. The activities of the
unit are carried out through face-to-face interaction at the front desk;
directing visitors, addressing and treating complaints and challenges
faced by students and directing them to relevant schools and units for
prompt resolution and response. Additionally, the unit reads all email
enquiries addressed to the University via centralinfonoun.edu.ng and
provides accurate information programmes offered by NOUN to
prospective students. Such enquiries and corresponding resolutions
are communicated to the University.
The University offers learner support services through the study
centre administrators and counsellors. The mainstay of every ODL
institution is, to a large extent, the adequate and good provision of
learner support services.
7.3 Service Charter
The University has set up a SERIVCOM unit. The SERVICOM,
Service Compact with ALL Nigerians is a comprehensive plan of
action for the running and sustaining of a public service agency with
which it (the University) can be assessed. In setting up this unit, the
University is interested in democratising the entire process of running
its various operational activities such that her major clients – the
students, public and stakeholders for whom these services are
provided – are given some measure of control over the quality of
services being delivered/received.
Intrinsic in the Charter of service, is the right of citizens of the
country to seek redress when any of the services as contained in the
SERVICOM Charter fails to meet their expectation. If such a
situation should arise, the University has provided avenues for redress
for any dissatisfied student and or stakeholder to do any of the
following:

-- 339 of 377 --

340
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
- Petition the Study Centre Director
- Petition the Dean/Director of the academic unit concerned
- Petition the Registrar
- Petition the University Senate
- Petition the Vice Chancellor
- Petition the Council
- Petition the Honourable Minister of Education; and/or
- Seek redress at the law court
See Appendix 1 –for the Service Charter of the University.
7.4 Glossary of Terms
Core/Compulsory Course
A compulsory course is a course which a student is required to
register for and pass before eligibility for graduation.
Elective Course
An elective course may be registered and taken but not necessarily
passed.
Pre-Requisite Course
This is a course at a level of study, which must be passed before
registering for another prescribed course.
Course Credit Unit System
This is a system of organisation of the curriculum in which courses
are broken down into units and are examinable and for which students
earn credit(s) if passed. The courses are assigned weights; e.g. three
credit units means three hours of lectures per week which include
practicals.

-- 340 of 377 --

341
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
APPENDICES
Appendix 1: Staff List for the Faculty of Education
Academic Staff
S/N NAME S
E
X
DESIGNAT
ION
SPECIALIZATION E-MAIL
ADDRESSES
Field Qualifications
1. Prof. OSUJI
Uchenna
Sydney A.
M Professor/
DEAN
Measurement
& Evaluation
NCE (Tech) Int, Enugu
B. Ed (UNICAL) ACPDI
(UK)
M. Ed (ABSU) PGDDE
(IGNOU), Ph.D M & E
(2000), Abia State Uni.
osujiojiugw
o2006@yah
oo.com,
uosuji@nou
n.edu.ng
2. Prof.
OKONKW
O Charity
A.
F Professor (1) Measurem
ent & Eva
(2) Physics
N.C.E., Maths/Physics
(IMT ENUGU), B.Sc.
(Ed) Physics, (UNICAL),
M. Sc (Physics) Lagos,
M.Ed. Measurement &
Evaluation, (ABSU),
Certificate in Computer
Programming,
(UNIPORT), Ph.D M & E
(2004), Abia State Uni.
caeokonkw
o@yahoo.c
o.uk,cokonk
wo@noun.
edu.ng
3. Prof. EYA
E. Patrick
M Professor Curriculum
Studies
B. Ed. Edu. Geography
& Botany (1979), M.Ed.
(1982), Ph.D
Curriculum Studies
(1995), Uni of Calabar
peya@nou
n.edu.ng
4. Prof.
ADEDIPE
O. Victor
M Professor Philosophy B.Ed (1974), M.Ed
(1978), Ph.D
Philosophy (1985), Uni
of Ibadan
vadedipe@
noun.edu.n
g

-- 341 of 377 --

342
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
5. Prof.
OGIDAN
Joshua
M Professor Guidance &
Counseling
B.Sc. (1987), M. Edu.
G&C (1991), Ph.D G&C
(2000), Uni of Ilorin
rogidan@n
oun.edu.ng
6. Prof.
SALAWU
Ibrahim O.
M Professor Edu. Tech. B. Ed English/History,
M.Ed. Educational
Technology,
M.L.S,PGDDE (IGNOU),
Ph.D (1999), University
of Ibadan
tundesalaw
u2003@yah
oo.co.uk,
isalawu@n
oun.edu.ng
7. Prof.
OBIOMA
Godwin
M Professor Evaluation &
Maths
Ph.D UNN ogodswill@
noun.edu.n
g
8. Prof.
NNADI
Christophe
r
M Professor Curriculum &
Instruction
BA.ED/REL -1988,
MA(ART) - 1991, M.ED
CAI (2005), Ph.D (2011)
, Enugu State Uni. of
Sci. & Tech.
cnnadi@no
un.edu.ng,
chrisnnadi2
noun.yahoo
.com
9. Prof. OJO
Olugbenga
M Professor Guidance &
Counselling
B.Ed (Counseling
Psychology)
(UNILORIN), M.Ed G &
C, Ph.D G & C (2000),
Obafemi Awolowo Uni.
olugbenga.
ojo@gmail.
com,
oojo@noun
.edu.ng
10.Prof.
OKOPI
Fidel
M Professor Counselling
Psychology
B.Ed. P.H.E. (1981),
M.Edu G&C (1991),
M.Ed, PGDDE, MADE,
Ph.D Counselling
Psycho (1999), Uni. Of
Ibadan
fokopi@no
un.edu.ng,
fokopi@gm
ail.com

-- 342 of 377 --

343
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
11.Dr.
INEGBEDI
ON Juliet
O.
F Ass. Prof. Educational
Planning
N.C.E. Secretarial
Studies (AGBOR), B.Sc.
Ed Business Education,
(UNIBEN), PGD
Manpower Economics
& Planning (UNILAG),
M.Ed. Business
Education (UNIBEN),
M.Ed. Curriculum
Studies – Education
Technology (UNILAG),
MBA – General
(AdekunleAjasin
University, Akungba -
Akoko), Ph.D Edu. Plng
(2012), Uni. Of Benin
juietinegbe
dion@gmail
.com,
jinegbedion
@noun.edu
.ng
12.Dr.
OGUNDIR
AN Samuel
O.
M Ass. Prof. Educational
Planning
B.A. Ed (Unilag), M.Ed.
Educational
Administration
(Unilag), Ph.D Edu Plng
(2008), Uni. Of Ibadan
drsogundira
n@yahoo.c
om,
sogundiran
@noun.edu
.ng
13.Dr. PITAN
Yemisi
F Ass. Prof. Guidance &
Counselling
B.A. (Ed) English
(1986), M.Ed G & C
(1988), Ph.D G & C
(1998), Uni. Of Ibadan
oluyemisi94
@gmail.co
m,
opitan@no
un.edu.ng
14.Dr. (Mrs.)
AJUFO
Beatrice I.
F Ass. Prof. Guidance &
Counselling
N.C.E. History/CRS.
(FCOE, Katsina), B. A.
History Education (BSU,
Abraka Campus), M.
Ed. Guidance
Counseling (U.I), Dip.
Cert., in Computer
Tech. & Application
ifyajufo@ya
hoo.co.uk,
bajufo@no
un.edu.ng

-- 343 of 377 --

344
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
(U.I. Consultancy Unit),
Ph.D G & C (2003), Uni.
Of Ibadan
15.Dr. AMINI
Clifford. M.
M Ass. Prof. Measurement
& Evaluation
NCE, B.SC(Ed) Chem.
Edu M.Ed M & E, Ph.D
M & E (2008), Uni. Of
Calabar
amini.cliffor
d@gmail.co
m,
16.Dr.
UKWUEZE
Augustine
C.
M Ass. Prof. Guidance &
Counselling
B.Sc. Ed.
Geography,(OAU)
M.Ed. Guidance &
Counseling (Unilag),
Ph.D G & C (2010),
Ebonyi State Uni.
austineukw
ueze@yaho
o.com
17.Dr.
OGBODO-
ADOGA
Rosemary
F Ass. Prof. Guidance &
Counselling
B.Ed. CRK Edu (1987),
M.Ed G & C (1990),
Ph.D G & C (2001), Uni.
Of Abuja
rosemaryoc
hany.ogbod
o@yahoo.c
om,
18.Dr. AMINU
Kazeem I.
M Ass. Prof. Edu. Psych. &
Counselling
NCE (1994), B.Ed Soc.
Studies Edu (1997),
M.Ed Edu. Psych
(2002), Ph.D Edu. Psych
& Counselling (2010),
Uni of Abuja (2001)
aibrahim@
noun.edu.n
g,
19.Dr. OBA-
ADENUGA
Olusegun
Adeleke.
M Senior
Lecturer/H
OD
Applied Psych
(Personnel)
NCE History/CRS 1987,
B.A Ed CRS/Edu 2000,
M.ED. Education
Psychology 2005, Ph.D.
Applied Psych
(Personnel) – 2011,
Onobanjo Uni.
obaadenug
a@yahoo.c
om,
oadenuga@
noun.edu.n
g
20.Dr. (Mrs.)
OGUNMA
F Senior
Lecturer
Edu Tech B.Sc. Radio, TV & Film
Production, M.A. Edu
Tech, Ph.D Edu Tech
tanronng@
gmail.com,r
ogunmakin

-- 344 of 377 --

345
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
KIN Ronke (1996) Obafemi
Awolowo Uni.
@noun.edu
.ng
21.Dr.
IHUOMA
Chinwe
F Senior
Lecturer
Counselling
Psychology
NCE Eng/Igbo (1984),
B.Ed G&C/Eng (1989),
M.Ed G&C (1990), Ph.D
Counselling Psysch
(2000), Uni. Of Ibadan
cihuoma@n
oun.edu.ng,
chinweihuo
maus@gma
il.com
22.Dr. OFOHA
Dorothy
F Senior
Lecturer
Edu Psych N.C.E English/French
(Owerri), B. Ed. English
(Uniport); M.Ed
Educational Psychology
(Unilag), Ph.D Edu.
Psych (2003), Uni of
Lagos
dorisofoha
@yahoo.co
m,
dofoha@no
un.edu.ng,
23.Dr. (Mrs.)
EZERIBE
Scholastica
l
F Senior
Lecturer
Guidance &
Counselling
B.Ed G & C (1986),
M.Ed G & C (1997),
Ph.D G & C (2007), Abia
State Uni
ezeribescho
la@gmail.c
om
24.Dr.
OWOLABI
Josiah
M Senior
Lecturer
Educational
Evaluation
B.Sc. (Ed) Maths
(1990), M.Sc. Maths
(1993), PGD Com Sci
(1996), M.Sc. Com Sci.
(1998), M.Ed Edu Eva
(2006), Ph.D Edu Eva
(2014), Uni. Of Ibadan
josiahowola
bi@gmail.c
om,
joowolabi@
noun.edu.n
g
25.Dr. BASSEY
Edwin
Okpa
M Senior
Lecturer
Educational
Psychology
B.Sc. (Ed) Pol Sci Edu
(1992), MPA Pub
Admin (1997), M.Ed
Edu Psych (2006), Ph.D
Edu Psych (2013),
University of Calabar
ebassey@n
oun.edu.ng,
edwinbasse
y@yahoo.c
om
26.Dr.
OPATEYE
M Senior Edu B.Sc. (Ed) Chemistry
(1986), M.Ed
jopateye@
noun.edu.n

-- 345 of 377 --

346
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Johnson A. Lecturer Evaluation Curriculum Studies
(1992)
PGD Computer Science
(2000), Ph.D Edu Eva
(2009), Uni. Of Ibadan,
Cert. in E-Facilitation
(2015)
g
27.Dr. JOB
Gabriel C.
M Senior
Lecturer
Edu Tech B.(Ed) Eng (1990), M.Ed
Edu Tech (1996), Ph.D
Edu Tech (2010), Uni of
Uyo
job.gabriel
@yahoo.co
m
28.Dr.
ADEDAPO
Adeyemi
M Lecturer I Edu. Tech B.Ed. Edu. Mgt. &
Econs (2000), M.Ed
Edu. Tech (2002),
M.Ed. Curriculum &
Instruc (2006), Ph.D
Educational Tech
(2013), Olabisi
Onabanjo Uni.
dapyem09
@gmail.co
m
29.Dr. TILIJE
Rose N.
F Lecturer I Admin &
Planning
NCE, B.A.(Ed), Eng,
M.ED, Edu. Admin,
Ph.D Admin & Plng
(2011), Uni. Of Lagos
rtilije@nou
n.edu.ng,
30.Dr. SAIDU
Rosemary
F.
F Lecturer I Guidance &
Counselling
Ph.D G & C (2008), Uni
of Ilorin, M.Ed G & C
(2000), B.A. (Ed)
Eng/Lang Art, NCE
sissaidu_ros
e@yahoo.c
om,
31.Dr.
ADEKUNLE
Adebanjo
A.
M Lecturer I Computer
Edu/Edu. Tech
B.Sc (Ed) Comp Sci Edu
(1998), M.Ed
Educational Tech
(2000), Ph.D (In view),
Uni of Ibadan
adekunleko
la@yahoo.c
om,

-- 346 of 377 --

347
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
32.Dr. APENA
Temilola
F Lecturer I Adult Edu NCE Eng/Yor (1990),
B.A (Ed) Edu. Eng
(1995), M.Ed Adult Edu
(2006), Ph.D Adult Edu
(2015), Uni. Of Lagos
tapena@no
un.edu.ng
33.Dr.
IBRAHIM
Musa
M Lecturer I Counselling
Psychology
B.A (Ed) Edu (2008),
M.Ed Counselling
Psychology (2011),
Ph.D Counselling
Psychology (2008), Uni
of Ibadan
musaibrahi
m@noun.e
du.ng,
34.Dr. AINA
Kehinde
F Lecturer I Guidance &
Counselling
B.A. Ed Edu. G & C
(1990), M.Ed G& C
(1992), Ph.D G&C
(2007), Uni. Of Lagos
olunikeken
ny75@yaho
o.com,
kaina@nou
n.edu.ng
35.Dr. ABAA
Angela
F Lecturer I Guidance &
Counselling
NCE Relig. & Sociology
(1986), B.Ed Edu. Relig
(1989), M.Ed G& C
(1993), Ph.D G&C
(2011), Abi State Uni.,
talk2angela
bba@yahoo
.com,
aabaa@nou
n.edu.ng
36.Dr.
ABIDOYE
Aderionye
B.
F Lecturer II Edu G & C B.A Eng. Lang (1986,
OAU, M.A. Eng. Lang.
(1990), Uni of Ilorin,
PGDE (1995), Uni of
Lagos, M.Ed. G & C
(1998), Ph.D Edu. G & C
(2011), Uni of Iilorin
aaderinola
@noun.edu
.ng
37.Dr.
BADMUS
Ayodeji M.
M Lecturer II Educational
Technology
NCE Tech. Edu/EE
(1998), B.Ed. Edu. Tech
(2003), M.Ed Edu. Tech
(2007), Ph.D
Educational Tech
badmusayo
muideen@
gmail.com,
aabadmus
@noun.edu

-- 347 of 377 --

348
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
(2013), Uni. Of Ilorin .ng
38.Dr. ONI
Leah
Olubunmi
F Lecturer II Educational
Evaluation
NCE Maths/G&C
(1991), B.Ed G & C
(1997), M.Ed. Edu. Eval
(2005), Ph.D Edu Eval
(2013), Uni of Ibadan,
oni.leah@y
ahoo.com
39.Dr.
AMEDE,
Lucky
M Lecturer II Guidance &
Counselling
NCE Agric. Sci. Edu
(1981), B.SC(Ed) Agric.
Sci. Edu,(1987) , M.Ed
G & C (1998), Ph.D G &
C (2008), Delta State
Uni.
amedelucky
@gmail.co
m,
40.Dr.
IKEGBUSI
Njideka
Gloria
F Lecturer II Edu Admin &
Planning
NCE Eng. Lang & Igbo
(1989), B.Ed. Edu
Admin. & Sup (1998),
M.Ed Edu. Admin &
Sup (2014), Ph.D Edu.
Mgt & Policy (2012),
Nnamdi Azikiwe Uni
glorimyi72
@gmail.co
m,
gikegbusi@
noun.edu.n
g
41.Dr. AINA
Josephine
Shola
F Lecturer II Guidance &
Counselling
NCE (1984), B.Sc. (Ed)
Edu. Biology (1995),
M.Ed G&C (1997), Ph.D
G&C (2011), Uni. of
Ilorin
jaina@nou
n.edu.ng,
ainajshola
@yahoo.co
m
42.Dr.
OLASUPO
E.
Bamidele
M Lecturer II Guidance &
Counselling
B.Ed G & C/LA (1996),
M.Ed. G & C (2002),
Ph.D G & C (2010), Uni
of Lagos
obamidele
@noun.edu
.ng,
drsupobami
dele@gmail
.com
43.Dr. (Mrs.)
MBANEFO
Maryrose
F Lecturer II Edu Admin &
Planning
NCE Bio/Chem Edu
(1983), B.Ed Edu.
Chemistry (1986), M.Ed
mbanefoma
ryrose
@yahoo.co

-- 348 of 377 --

349
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Chinwe Curri. Studies (1994),
Ph.D Admin. & Plang
(2015), UNN
m,
44.Dr.
MANAFA
Fausta
F Lecturer II Soc. of Edu. NCE Eng/CRS (1990),
B.A. (Ed) Lang. Arts
Eng. Edu. (2000), M.Ed
Sociology of Edu
(2010), Ph.D Sociology
of Edu (2015), Uni. Of
Lagos
fausymanaf
a@yahoo.c
om
45.Dr. AKPAN
Louis Okon
M Lecturer II Comparative
Edu.
B.Sc. (Ed) Geo & Edu.
(1995), M.Sc. Geo
(2001), M.Ed
Comparative Ed.
(2001), Ph.D
Comparative Edu
(2016), University of
Kwazulu-Natal, South
African
airmailo@y
ahoo.com
46.Dr. OBIYE
Florence
Ngozi
F Lecturer II Edu. Admin B.NSE (1991), PGDE
(1997), M.Ed Edu
Admin (2005), Ph.D
Edu. Edu Admin (2011),
Imo State Uni,
obiyefloren
ce@yahoo.
com
47.Dr.
ADEDIRAN
Ibraheem
Adedayo
M Lecturer II Counselling
Psychology
B.Ed G&C/Pol Sci
(1999), M.Ed
Counselling Psycho
(2004), Ph.D (In view)
Uni of Ibadan
ibcounsello
r@yahoo.c
om,
iaadediran
@noun.edu
.ng
48.Dr. Aina
Shola
M Lecturer II

-- 349 of 377 --

350
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
49.Mrs.
KELIKUME
Genevieve
F Assist.
Lecturer
Human Res.
Mgt.
NCE Maths (1987), B.Ed
Adult Education/Econs
(1994), M.Sc
Economics (1998),
M.Ed Educational
Management (2008),
Ph.D (In View) Walden
Uni, Baltimore, USA
genevievek
elikume@y
ahoo.com,
50.Mr.
AKANDE
M. Rotimi
M Assist.
Lecturer
Adult Edu B.Ed Teacher
Education/ Econs.
2008, M.Ed Adult Edu
(Manpower Training &
Dev. (2013)
rmakande
@noun.edu
.ng
DEPARTMENT OF ARTS & SOCIAL SCIENCES
S/N NAME SEX DESIGNATI
ON
SPECIALIZATION E-MAIL
Field Qualifications
1. Dr.
FATIMAYIN
Foluke F.
F Senior
Lecturer/H
OD
Language
Edu.
B.Ed. English
Language
Education, M.Ed.
English Language
Education
(2004); Ph.D
Language
Education
(2010), Uni. Of
lorin
folukefatime
hin@yahoo.c
om,
ffatimayin@
noun.edu.ng,
2. Prof. ONYIA M Professor Industrial B.Sc. Vocational
Industrial Educ
oniachealex
@gmail.com,

-- 350 of 377 --

351
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Alexander U. Voc & Edu (1984), M.Sc
Trade & Indus
Edu (1985), Ph.D
Tech &
Vocational Edu
(2002), Enugu
State Uni. Of Sci.
& Tech,
aonyia@noun.e
du.ng
3. Dr. GARBA
Nuhu
Lawrence
M Ass. Prof. Technical
Teacher
Edu.
Ph.D, M.A., B.Sc. ngarba@nou
n.edu.ng,
lawrencegar
ba@yahoo.c
o.uk
4. Dr. (Mrs.)
OSIKOMAIYA
Olufunke M.
F Lecturer I Language
Edu. (Eng.)
NCE Eng/SOS
(1991), B.Ed Eng
Edu (1997),
M.Ed Lang. Edu.
Eng (2003), Ph.D
Lang. Edu. Eng
(2013), Uni. Of
Ibadan
0803392373
2,
osikomaiyam
oji@gmail.co
m,
osikomaiya@
noun.edu.ng
5. Dr. WADA B.
Zira
M Lecturer II Tech. Edu. B.Tech (Ed) E/E
(2001), NCE Tech
E/E (1992), M.Ed
Indus. Tech Edu
(2006), Ph.D
Indus. Tech Edu.
(2015), Modebbo
Adama Uni of
Tech., Yola,
0814273942
1,
wadazy48@g
amial.com
6. Mr. LIADI M Lecturer II Bus. Edu. NCE Business hakeen456@

-- 351 of 377 --

352
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
DEPARTMENT OF SCIENCE EDUCATION
Hakeem
Olaniyi
Education; B.Sc.
(Ed) Business
Education; M.Ed.
Business
Education, Ph.d
(In View, Uni. Of
Benin
yahoo.com,
/N NAME SEX DESIGNATIO
N SPECIALIZATION
E-MAIL ADDRE
Dr. (Mrs.) APATA
Funke S.
F Senior
Lecturer/HOD
Physics Edu NCE
Physics/Chemist
ry (ORO), B.Sc.
Ed. Integrated
Science
(UNILORIN),
M.Ed Science
fapata@noun.
g

-- 352 of 377 --

353
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Education
(UNILORIN),
Ph.D Physics
Education
(2011), Uni of
Ilorin
Prof. TANGLANG
Nebath
M Professor Sports
Manageme
nt
B.Ed PHE (1984),
M. Ed Sport
Psycho (1988),
Ph.D Sports
Management
(2003), Ahmadu
Bello Uni, Zaria
ntanglang@no
u.ng
Prof. OGUNSOLA-
BANDELE Mercy
F Professor Sci. Edu B.ED, M.ED Ph.D
Cur. & Instruc
(Sci. Edu) –
1987, Ahmadu
Bello Uni, Zaria
ogunband@i
global.com
Prof. TIMOTHY
James
M Professor Sci. Edu. B.Ed Science
Education
(Biology) (ABU,
Zaria), M.Ed
Science
Education –
Biology (ABU,
Zaria), Ph.D Sci.
Edu (2012),
Ahmadu Bello
Uni
timadejames64@
com
tjmaes@noun.e
Prof. GARBA A.
Suleiman
M Professor Phy. Health
Edu.
NCE, PHE
(1985), B.Sc
suleimannamu
oo.com

-- 353 of 377 --

354
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
(Ed), PHE
(1988), M.Ed
Psych (1992),
Ph.D Sports Mgt
(1996), Ahmadu
Bello Uni, Zaria
Prof. NNAKA
Chibuogwu
F Professor Science
Education
B.Sc (Ed)
Biology, M.Ed
Sci Edu (1985),
Ph.D Sci Edu
(1990), UNN
cnnaka@noun
ng
Dr. OGUNLEYE
Bamikole O.
M Ass. Prof. Chem Edu NCE, B.Ed, Sci
Edu, M.Ed Sci
Edu. PhD (2002)
Chem. Edu. Uni.
Of Ibadan
bogunleye@no
du.ng
Dr. KOLAWOLE A.
Anike
F Senior
Lecturer
Heath
Education
Dip in PHE: B.
Sc. (Ed) PHE,
M.Sc. Sports
Management,
Ph.D. Health
Education.
kolawoleschol
mail.com
akolawole@no
u.ng,
Dr. AFOLABI Samson
Sunday
M Senior
Lecturer
Maths Edu B.Sc (Hons)
Education
Mathematics
(Unilag, 1989),
PGD Statistics
(U.I.) (1998),
M.Ed
Mathematics
ashaloms@ya
om,
safolabi@noun
ng

-- 354 of 377 --

355
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Education (U.I.)
(2001)
Ph.D Maths Edu
(2010), Uni. Of
Ibadan
0. Dr. ADAKOLE Ikpe M Senior
Lecturer
Science
Education
B.Ed Sci. Edu,
M.Ed Science
Education, Ph.D
Sci. Edu (2014),
Ahmadu Bello
Uni Zaria
aikpe@noun.e
1. Dr. ANAEKWE
Marcellinus Chibueze
M Senior
Lecturer
Science
Education
NCE Bio/Chem
(1984), B.Sc.
Edu/Chem
(1988), M.Ed.
Sci. Edu/Chem.
(1992), Ph.D Sci.
Edu. (1997)
UNN
marsanaekwe@
il.com,
manaekwe@n
du.ng
2. Dr. ANGBA Tessy
Onogimesike
F Senior
Lecturer
Exercise
Physiology
B.Ed Phy. &
Health Sciences,
M.Ed
Physiology, Ph.D
Exercise
Physiology
(2011), Uni. Of
Ibadan
tangba@noun.
g
3. Dr. AFOLABI Moriliat
Jumoke
F Lecturer I Sci. Edu. NCE Phy/Chem
Edu (1981),
B.Sc. (Ed.) Chem
(1988), M.Ed.
jumafolabi@ya
om,

-- 355 of 377 --

356
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Curriculum in
Sci. Edu (2004),
PhD Sci. Edu.
(2015) – ABU,
Zaira
4. Mr. AMUSA
Oluwadamilare J.
F Lecturer I Physics
Education
B.Sc. (Ed) Edu. &
Physics (1997),
M.Ed Physics
(2005), Ph.D
Physics Edu – In
view (Unilag)
amusadamilar
hoo.com
5. Dr. OGUNDIWIN
Oluyemi A.
M Lecturer II Bio Edu B.Sc. Agronomy
(1992), PGDE
(2003), M.Ed
Biology Edu
(2006), Ph.D
Biology Edu
(2013), Uni of
Ibadan
yemiogundiwin
hoo.com,
oogundiwin@n
edu.ng
6. Dr. (Mrs.) OLUSA
Olayinka Leah
F Lecturer II Edu Bio BSC Sci Edu
(1990), M.Ed Sci
Edu (2001), Ph.D
Sci & Tech Edu
(2015),
Adekunle Ajasin
Uni, Ondo,
oluleah@yahoo
oluleah@gmai
7. Mr. EJEMBI Enokela
John
M Asst. Lecturer Agric Sci.
Edu
NCE Agric
Education; B.Sc.
Ed. (Hons) Agric
Science
Education,
jejembi@noun
ng,
jackejembi24@
l.com

-- 356 of 377 --

357
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
REGISTRY STAFF
S/N Name of
Staff
Qualification
and Dates
Obtained
Rank/Designati
on, Salary Scale
and Date of
First
Appointment
Post Qualification
Work Experience
Faculty
/
Unit
M.Ed. Sci Edu
8. Mrs. OLAWALE
Yetunde Mutiat
F Asst. Lecturer Sci.Edu. NCE Int. Sci
(2003), Fed.
Coll. Of Edu,
B.Sc. Biology
Edu. (2010) Uni
Abuja, M.Sc.
(Ed) Biology
(2017), NOUN
olawaleyet
unde@yah
oo.com,
yolawale@
noun.edu.n
g

-- 357 of 377 --

358
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
1 Mrs. Dayo
Akinbowale
M.Ed Educ
Admin (2009),
PGDE (2004)
B.Sc. (Hons)
Pol. Sci.
(1989), Dip in
Data
Processing
(1993)
Deputy
Registrar, 2017
National Open
University of Nigeria
2003 to Date
FOE
2 Mrs.
Kikelomo
Adesina-
Adewale
B.A. English,
PGDDE, MBA
Principal
Assistant
Registrar
National Open
University of Nigeria
2003 to Date
FOE
3 Mrs.
Deborah
Weyinmi
Akinboboye
M.Ed. Admin
& Planning
(2016), PGDE
(2009), HND
Bilingual Sec
Studies
(2004), OND
Sec. Studies
(2000)
Principal
Confidential
Secretary I
National Open
University of Nigeria
2003 to Date
FOE
4 Mrs. Jane A
Ukaigwe
OND
Computer Sci,
B.Sc
Computer/Sta
t, M.Sc
Information
Tech.
Principal
Confidential
Secretary II
National Open
University of Nigeria
2004 to Date
FOE

-- 358 of 377 --

359
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
5 Mrs.
Augustina O.
Afolabi
Principal
Confidential
Secretary II
National Open
University of Nigeria
FOE
6 Mrs.
Arowosegbe
Oluwafisayo O
B.Sc Pol. Sci
(1992), PGDE
(2004), B.Ed
Educ Admin
(2012)
Admin Officer 1 National Open
University of Nigeria
FOE
7 Ugochi
Onyeneri .N
B.Sc. Govt/
Public Admin
(2007) M.BA
Human
Resources &
Management
Admin Officer 1 National Open
University of Nigeria
FOE
Mr. Favour
Ikhana
Admin Officer National Open
University of Nigeria
FOE
Mrs.
Temitope O.
Oyenuga
OND
(Accounting)
B.Sc
(Accounting)
in view
Senior Sec.
Asst. I
National Open
University of Nigeria
FOE
8 Ms.
Temitope
Adisa
OND - 2003
WAEC - 1998
Senior Clerical
Officer.
22nd June, 2011
National Open
University of Nigeria
(NOUN) – 2011 to
Date
FOE

-- 359 of 377 --

360
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
9 Victoria
Akunwa
Okere
HND
Accounting
(2017)
Senior Clerical
Officer.
26th Nov, 2012
National Open
University of Nigeria
(NOUN) – 2012 to
Date
FOE
10 Mrs. Esther
Durotoye
WAEC – 1999
B. Sc. 2012
Clerical Officer
17th December,
2012
National Open
University of Nigeria
(NOUN) – 2012 till
Date
FOE
FOE
11 Mr. Chinonso
F. Uzondu
WAEC Environmental
Attendant
National Open
University of Nigeria
FOE
12 Mrs. Esther
Orji
WAEC Environmental
Attendant
National Open
University of Nigeria
FOE

-- 360 of 377 --

361
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
List of other Staff from other Faculties Serving the Faculty of
Education
S/
N
Name Qualifications Discipline Designati
on
1 Prof.
Vincent
Tenebe
B.Sc., M.Sc., Ph.D Agronomy Professor
2 Prof.
Grace
Jokthan
Ph.D Animal Science
(2006), M.Sc.
Animal Science
(2001), B.Sc.
Agricultural 1990
Agricultural
Ext. Mgt
Professor
3 Prof.
MoniOluw
a Olaniyi
Ph.D Applied
Biological Sciences
(2003), M.Sc.
Agricultural Biology
(1991), M.Sc. NEM
Biology Professor
4 Prof. Nda
Mundi
Ph.D Agric extension
and Rural Sociology
(2007), Msc Agric
extension (1991),
B.sc (Ed)
Agricultural science
(1984), N.C.E
Agricultural science
(1981)
Agricultural
Ext. Mgt
Professor
5 Prof Eyisi
Joy
N.C.E Eng/Religious
Studies, B.A
Education English,
M.A Educational
Admin &
Supervision, M.A
English, Ph.D
English
English Professor
6 Prof.
Anayo D.
Nkamnebe
Ph.D Marketing
(Nsukka) (2004);
MBA Marketing
(Nsukka) (1996),
Marketing Professor

-- 361 of 377 --

362
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
PGD; B.Sc
Marketing (Nsukka)
(1993). Specialised
in Ph.D Marketing
(Nsukka) 2004;
MBA Marketing
(Nsukka) (1996),
PGD; B.Sc
Marketing (Nsukka)
(1993).
7 Prof.
Joseph O.
Onwe
Ph.D Economics
(University of
Wisconsin-
Milwaukee) (1986);
M.Sc. Environmental
Arts and Sciences
(University of
Wisconsin-Green
Bay) (1980); B.Sc
Business
Administration
(University of
Wisconsin- Green
bay) (1978).
Specialised in
Economic Growth
and Development;
and Urban
Economics
Economics Professor
8 Prof.
Nkiruka T.
Meludu
Agric Extension B.Sc
Home Econs (1990)
(Ekpoma), M.Sc
Agric Extension
(1992) (UI), Ph.D
Agric Extension
(1997), (UI)
Agric
Extension
Professor

-- 362 of 377 --

363
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
9 Prof.
Wilfred
Iyiegbuniw
e
Ph.D Finance
(U.S.A) 1984, M.Sc.
Finance
(USA)(1983); M.Sc.
Decision Science.
Applied Stat.(USA)
(1982),Diploma in
Marketing (Institute
of Marketing-
London) (1976),
MBA(UNILAG)
(1975), B.Sc.
Business Admin
(UNILAG) (1973).
Speicalised in
Marketing; Member,
Chartered Institute of
Marketing, Britain;
Member, Nigerian
Academy of Mgt;
Member, Financial
Mgt Association,
USA; Member,
Southern Finance
Association, USA
Finance Professor
10 Prof.
Nkiruka
Meludu
B.Sc. Home Econs
(1990), M.Sc. Agric
Extension (1992),
Ph.D Agric
Extension (1997) UI.
Agriculture Professor
11 Dr. Saheed
Oluwatoyi
n. Ajibola
Ph.D (Federal
University of Tech,
Akure) (2009); M.Sc.
Applied Mathematics
(University of Ilorin)
(1998); B.Sc. Pure
and Applied
Mathematics (LASU)
Applied
Mathematics
Associate
Professor

-- 363 of 377 --

364
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
1994; WASC,
(1986). Specialised
in Applied
Mathematics.
Member, Nigerian
Mathematical
Society; Member,
Mathematical
Association of
Nigeria; Member,
National Association
of Mathematical
Physics.
12 Dr (Mrs.)
Fagbemi
O.
Ayodele
Ph.D Business
Administration
(UNILAG) 1990;
MBA (UNILAG)
(1974); B.Sc. (Hons)
Geography and
Economics (Ile-Ife)
(1972); GCE (1967).
Specialised in
Management.
Member, Institute of
Personnel Mgt
Nigeria; Member of
African Association
of Public Admin and
Mgt; Member,
Nigerian Institute of
Training
Development;
Member, Institute of
Mgt Consultants,
Nigeria.
Business
Administrati
on
Associate
Professor
13 Dr
Clement I.
Okeke
B.Sc Bus Admin
(University of Benin)
1983; MBA
Business
Administrati
on
Associate
Professor

-- 364 of 377 --

365
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Marketing
(University of
Nigeria, Enugu
Campus)(1985);
Ph.D Marketing
(Abia State
University, Uturu)
(2009). Specialised
in marketing.
Member, National
Institute of marketing
of Nigeria, CMD
Accredited
Management Trainer;
Member, academy of
Management of
Nigeria.
14 Prof.
Ofulue
Christine
B.A Linguistics
(1984, UNILORIN),
M.A Linguistics (UI
1986),Ph.D.
(Indiana), PGDDE.
Linguistics Associate
Professor
15 Dr.
Omolara
Daniel
B.Ed.
English/Language
Arts(1991), MA
English (1998),
Ph.D. English (2008)
English Associate
Professor
16 Prof.
Samaila
Mande
Grade II Teacher’s
Certificate (1990);
Graduate Diploma in
Public Relations
(BEEC, Lagos)
(1994); PGD in
Business Admin-
Marketing (Nsukka)
(1997); M.Sc.
Marketing (Nsukka)
(1998); MBA
Management Associate
Professor

-- 365 of 377 --

366
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Marketing (Nsukka)
(2000); M.Sc. Mass
Communication
(Benue State
University, Makurdi)
(2004); Ph.D
Business Admin-
Marketing
(Igbinedion
University, Okada)
(2009). Specialised
in Marketing.
Member, Nigerian
academy of Mgt.;
Member, Institute of
Management
Consultants of
Nigeria; Member,
Nigeria institute of
Public Relations;
Member, African
Council for
Communication
Education; Member,
Nigeria Union of
Journalist.
17 Dr. S.B.
Osoba
Ph.D Transport
Geography (UI)
(2010); MBA
Management
(OlabisiOnabanjo
University, Ago-
Iwoye (2004); M.Sc.
Transport Studies
(Ogun State
University, Ago-
Iwoye) (1998); B.Sc.
Geography and
Transport
Geography
Associate
Professor

-- 366 of 377 --

367
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Regional Planning
(Ogun State
University, Ago-
Iwoye) (1997);
WASC, (1986).
Specialised in
Transport
Geography. Member,
Association of
Nigeria Geographer;
Chatered Member
Institute of Logistic
and Transport.
18 Dr
Adesina-
Uthman
Ganiyat A
Ph.D (Financial
economics, U.P.M,
Malaysia) (2011);
M.Sc. Finance
(IIUM, Malaysia)
2005; ACMA (2005);
H.N.D. Banking and
Finance (Fed. Poly,
Ede, Nigeria)
(1998).Specialised in
Financial Economics.
Financial
Economics
Associate
Professor
19 Dr.
Onyeka
Iwuchukw
u
B.A English, M.A
English (Lagos),
Ph.D. English.
Specialised in
Literature
Literature Senior
Lecturer
20 Dr.
Anthonia
Yakubu
B.A English (1991),
M.A English (1995),
Ph.D. English
(2010). Literature
English Senior
Lecturer
21 Dr. T.O.
Ishola
Business
Administration TTC
Akoka (2006), B.Sc.
Business
Business
Administrati
on
Senior
Lecturer

-- 367 of 377 --

368
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Administration ABU,
Zaria (1991), MBA
(Marketing) ABU
(1998)
22 Theodore
Iyere
BA Linguistics
(1987,Jos), PGDE
(1997), MA English
Language (2002,
ABU)
Linguistics Lecturer I
23 Dr. Petu
Ibikunle
Michael
Ph.D Agronomy
(2010), M.Sc. Crop
Physiology and
Production (1999),
B.Sc. Agriculture
(Crop Production)
(1991)
Agricultural
Ext. Mgt
Lecturer I
24 Dr. Okpara
Atuma
Ph.D Management
(University of Port
Harcourt) (2013);
M.Sc. Management
(Lagos State
University) (2008);
MBA Management
(Rivers State
University of Science
and Tech) (2004);
B.Sc. Accountancy
(Rivers State
University of Science
and Tech) (1997).
Diploma in
Computer (River
State Professional
Computer Studies.
Specialised in
Management.
Associate Member,
Nigeria institute of
Management Lecturer 1

-- 368 of 377 --

369
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
Management;
Associate Member,
Chartered Institute of
Administration.
25 Dr.
Ibrahim D.
Idrisu
Ph.D Transport Mgt
(St Clements
University) (2005);
MTM Transport-
Aviation (Lodoke
Akintola University
(2002); MBA
Finance (UNILAG)
(1990); B.Sc.
Finance (UNILAG)
(1979); OND
Accounting (Federal
Polytechnic, Auchi)
(1974). Specilised in
Management.
Associate Member,
Nigeria Institute of
Mgt;
Transport
Management
Lecturer 1
26 Dr (Mrs.)
Ofe Iwiyisi
Inua
Ph.D Accounting
(UNIBEN) 2013;
PGDE (UNIBEN)
2007; M.Sc.
Accounting
(UNIBEN) 2006;
B.Sc. Accounting
(UNIBEN) 2002;
SSCE, (996)
Specialised in
Accounting.
Member, Teachers
Registration Council
of Nigeria
Accounting Senior
Lecturer

-- 369 of 377 --

370
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
27 Dr.
Elizabeth
Sabo
Ph.D Agric
Extension, M.Sc.
Agriculture
Extension (2004),
B.Sc. Agricultural
Economics and
Extension (1999)
Agricultural
Ext. Mgt
Lecturer I
28 Dr.
Onwodi
Gregory
M.Sc Information
Technology (2004),
B.Sc Computer
Science 1995; Ph.D
Information
Technology (2004),
B.Sc Computer
Science
Information
Technology
Lecturer I
29 Ms. Vivian
Nwaocha
M.Sc Computer
Science (2006),PGD
Computer Science
and Engineering
(2002), B.Eng
Metallurgical and
Material Engineering
(1995)
Information
Technology
Lecturer I
30 Ms.
Afolorunsh
o Adenrele
Ph.D in view, B.Sc
Computer
science/Mathematics
(1995), M.Sc
Computer science
(2006)
Information
Technology
Lecturer 1
31 Mr. Adams
Abiodun
Emmanuel
B.Sc. Agric Biology,
M.Sc.
Agric.
Economics
Lecturer 1
32 Ms.Jubril
Lucy
Jummai
Dip in Lang
Edu(French), B.A
(Hons) UNIMAID,
MTL( Lagos)
,PGDE(Indira
French Lecturer 1

-- 370 of 377 --

371
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
GhandiUniv, French
Literature
33 Mr.
Awolumat
e Samuel
B. Sc (Agricultural
Economics & Rural
Sociology), M. Sc
Fisheries &
Aquacult
ure
Lecturer 1
34 Dr.
Oyebanji
Omotayo
B.Sc Computer
Science (1976), M.Sc
Computer Science
(1981), Ph.D
Computer Science
(1984)
Computer
Science
Lecturer 1
35 Engr.
Oguntala
George
Adeyinka
M.Sc System
Engineering (2010),
MBA Human
Resources
Management (2010),
MCP Microsoft
Certified
Professional (2005),
CCNA Cisco
Certified Network
Associate (2005),
B.Sc
Electronics/Compute
r Engineering (2008)
Information
Technology
Lecturer II
36 Mr.
Oluwasogo
Okunade
Ph.D in view, M.Sc
(2009), Microsoft
Technology
Associate, Data base
Administration
(MTA) 2011, B.Sc
(2004), OND (2000)
Information
Technology
Lecturer II

-- 371 of 377 --

372
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
37 Dr.
Maureen
Chukwu
PhD Cell Biology
and Genetics (1995-
2010), B.Sc Biology
(1990). Technical
Teachers Certificate
(2011), Diploma in
Computer Science
(1996)
Biology Lecturer II
38 Dr. Uduak
Aletan
Ph.D Nutritional
Biochemistry
(2010), M.Sc
Nutritional
Biochemistry 2001,
B.Sc Nutritional
Biochemistry (1997)
Chemistry Lecturer II
39 Dr. Ogoko
Emeka C.
Ph.D Analytical
Chemistry (2010),
M.Sc Analytical
Chemistry (2001),
B.Sc Chemistry
1996, Afrihup
Professional
Computer
Certificate(2010)
Chemistry Lecturer II
40 Dr. Kelle
Henrietta
Ijeoma
Ph.D Environmental
Chemistry (2012),
M.Sc Pure and
Industrial Chemistry
(2005), B.Sc
Industrial Chemistry
(1995)
Chemistry Lecturer II
41 Mr. Osho
Babatunde
Ph.D in View, MBA
Finance 2001. M.Sc
Statistics (1988),
B.Sc Education
Mathematics (1987),
N.C.E
Maths/Chemistry
Mathematics Lecturer II

-- 372 of 377 --

373
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
42 Mrs. Ishola
Yemisi
M.Sc Mathematics
(2008), B.Sc
Education
Mathematics (1992),
N.C.E 1989
Mathematics Lecturer II
43 Mr.Jamiu
O. Amusa
B.Sc (Ed.) Physics
1998 (UNILORIN),
M.Ed Physics
Education 2004
(UNILAG)
Physics Lecturer
11
44 Miss Nora
Ijeoma
Onwumelu
B.A English
(1998)(UNILAG)
M.A English
Literature (2002)
UNILAG
English Assistant
Lecturer
45 Dr.Abayo
mi Samuel
Bankole
Doctor of Veterinary
Medicine
(DVM)2005
Agricultural
Ext. Mgt
Assistant
Lecturer
46 Miss Ajayi
Folasade
Abiose
Ph.D Biochemistry in
view, Msc
Biochemistry(2011),
B.sc Biochemistry
(2008)
Chemistry Assistant
Lecturer
47 Miss
Odunmbak
u Adiat
M.Sc Analytic
Chemistry (2005),
B.sc Chemistry
(2002),HND
Accounting (2001),
Technical Teachers
(TTC)(2006)
Chemistry Assistant
Lecturer
48 Mr. Disu
Babatunde
Akeem
Ph.D Applied
Mathematics in view
,Msc Applied
Mathematic
(2010),B.sc
Mathematic (2006)
Mathematics Assistant
Lecturer

-- 373 of 377 --

374
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
49 Mr. Peters
Adaranijo
Msc Digital
Communication
(2012), B.Eng.
Electrical
Engineering (2009)
Information
Technology Assistant
Lecturer
50 Mr. Eya
Nnabuike
Msc Networks and
Communication ,
B.sc Computer
science (2007)
Information
Technology Assistant
Lecturer
51 Mr. Efiong
A. Ibanga
B.Sc; M.Sc.
(Physics)
Space
Weather/Wa
ve
Propagation
Assistant
Lecturer
52 Mr.
Olawale B.
Epebinu
B.Sc; M.Sc (Medical
Physics)
Medical
Instrumentati
on
Assistant
Lecturer
53 Mr.Layiwo
la Sanusi
Shittu
B.A (Ife), M.A
(Ibadan), PGDE
(Ilorin),M.Phil
(France) French
&Francophone
Literature, Teaching
of French as a
Foreign Language
French Assistant
Lecturer
54 Mr Iorvaa
P SAI
B.B. French (Jos),
Cert French
(Besancon) M.A
French, M.Sc French
(BSU)
French Assistant
Lecturer
55 Mr.
Chobel
Abdul
B.Sc Software
Engineering (2010),
M.Sc Mgt
Information Systems
(2011), Graduate
Employment
Training (2012),
Micro Sun Java
Software
Engineer
Assistant
Lecturer

-- 374 of 377 --

375
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education
(2008)
56 Mr.
Anthony I.
Ehiagwina
M.Sc Accounting
(UNIBEN) (2008);
B.Sc. Accounting
(UNIBEN) (2002);
Diploma in
Accounting
(UNIBEN) (1998).
Specialised in
Accounting.
Accounting Assistant
Lecturer
57 Mr.
Osabiya
Babatunde
Joseph
Political Science
B.Sc Pol Science
(2006), (UNILAG),
MPA (2010)
UNILAG
Political
Science
Assistant
Lecturer

-- 375 of 377 --

376
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education

-- 376 of 377 --

377
National Open University of Nigeria Faculty of Education

-- 377 of 377 --

